 way half up the steps before the throne to which Salensus Oll

had carried Dejah Thoris ere ever they could stop me.


Then I went down, fighting, beneath a half-hundred warriors; but before they

had battered me into unconsciousness I heard that from the lips of Dejah Thoris

that made all my suffering well worth while.


Standing there beside the great tyrant, who clutched her by the arm, she

pointed to where I fought alone against such awful odds.


“Think you, Salensus Oll, that the wife of such as he is,” she

cried, “would ever dishonor his memory, were he a thousand times dead, by

mating with a lesser mortal? Lives there upon any world such another as John

Carter, Prince of Helium? Lives there another man who could fight his way back

and forth across a warlike planet, facing savage beasts and hordes of savage

men, for the love of a woman?


“I, Dejah Thoris, Princess of Helium, am his. He fought for me and won

me. If you be a brave man you will honor the bravery that is his, and you will

not kill him. Make him a slave if you will, Salensus Oll; but spare his life. I

would rather be a slave with such as he than be Queen of Okar.”


“Neither slave nor queen dictates to Salensus Oll,” replied the

Jeddak of Jeddaks. “John Carter shall die a natural death in the Pit of

Plenty, and the day he dies Dejah Thoris shall become my queen.”


I did not hear her reply, for it was then that a blow upon my head brought

unconsciousness, and when I recovered my senses only a handful of guardsmen

remained in the audience chamber with me. As I opened my eyes they goaded me

with the points of their swords and bade me rise.


Then they led me through long corridors to a court far toward the center of the

palace.


In the center of the court was a deep pit, near the edge of which stood half a

dozen other guardsmen, awaiting me. One of them carried a long rope in his

hands, which he commenced to make ready as we approached.


We had come to within fifty feet of these men when I felt a sudden strange and

rapid pricking sensation in one of my fingers.


For a moment I was nonplused by the odd feeling, and then there came to me

recollection of that which in the stress of my adventure I had entirely

forgotten—the gift ring of Prince Talu of Marentina.


Instantly I looked toward the group we were nearing, at the same time raising

my left hand to my forehead, that the ring might be visible to one who sought

it. Simultaneously one of the waiting warriors raised his left hand, ostensibly

to brush back his hair, and upon one of his fingers I saw the duplicate of my

own ring.


A quick look of intelligence passed between us, after which I kept my eyes

turned away from the warrior and did not look at him again, for fear that I

might arouse the suspicion of the Okarians. When we reached the edge of the pit

I saw that it was very deep, and presently I realized I was soon to judge just

how far it extended below the surface of the court, for he who held the rope

passed it about my body in such a way that it could be released from above at

any time; and then, as all the warriors grasped it, he pushed me forward, and I

fell into the yawning abyss.


After the first jerk as I reached the end of the rope that had been paid out to

let me fall below the pit’s edge they lowered me quickly but smoothly.

The moment before the plunge, while two or three of the men had been assisting

in adjusting the rope about me, one of them had brought his mouth close to my

cheek, and in the brief interval before I was cast into the forbidding hole he

breathed a single word into my ear:


“Courage!”


The pit, which my imagination had pictured as bottomless, proved to be not more

than a hundred feet in depth; but as its walls were smoothly polished it might

as well have been a thousand feet, for I could never hope to escape without

outside assistance.


For a day I was left in darkness; and then, quite suddenly, a brilliant light

illumined my strange cell. I was reasonably hungry and thirsty by this time,

not having tasted food or drink since the day prior to my incarceration.


To my amazement I found the sides of the pit, that I had thought smooth, lined

with shelves, upon which were the most delicious viands and liquid refreshments

that Okar afforded.


With an exclamation of delight I sprang forward to partake of some of the

welcome food, but ere ever I reached it the light was extinguished, and, though

I groped my way about the chamber, my hands came in contact with nothing beside

the smooth, hard wall that I had felt on my first examination of my prison.


Immediately the pangs of hunger and thirst began to assail me. Where before I

had had but a mild craving for food and drink, I now actually suffered for want

of it, and all because of the tantalizing sight that I had had of food almost

within my grasp.


Once more darkness and silence enveloped me, a silence that was broken only by

a single mocking laugh.


For another day nothing occurred to break the monotony of my imprisonment or

relieve the suffering superinduced by hunger and thirst. Slowly the pangs

became less keen, as suffering deadened the activity of certain nerves; and

then the light flashed on once again, and before me stood an array of new and

tempting dishes, with great bottles of clear water and flagons of refreshing

wine, upon the outside of which the cold sweat of condensation stood.


Again, with the hunger madness of a wild beast, I sprang forward to seize those

tempting dishes; but, as before, the light went out and I came to a sudden stop

against a hard wall.


Then the mocking laugh rang out for a second time.


The Pit of Plenty!


Ah, what a cruel mind must have devised this exquisite, hellish torture! Day

after day was the thing repeated, until I was on the verge of madness; and

then, as I had done in the pits of the Warhoons, I took a new, firm hold upon

my reason and forced it back into the channels of sanity.


By sheer will-power I regained control over my tottering mentality, and so

successful was I that the next time that the light came I sat quite still and

looked indifferently at the fresh and tempting food almost within my reach.

Glad I was that I had done so, for it gave me an opportunity to solve the

seeming mystery of those vanishing banquets.


As I made no move to reach the food, the torturers left the light turned on in

the hope that at last I could refrain no longer from giving them the delicious

thrill of enjoyment that my former futile efforts to obtain it had caused.


And as I sat scrutinizing the laden shelves I presently saw how the thing was

accomplished, and so simple was it that I wondered I had not guessed it before.

The wall of my prison was of clearest glass—behind the glass were the

tantalizing viands.


After nearly an hour the light went out, but this time there was no mocking

laughter—at least not upon the part of my tormentors; but I, to be at

quits with them, gave a low laugh that none might mistake for the cackle of a

maniac.


Nine days passed, and I was weak from hunger and thirst, but no longer

suffering—I was past that. Then, down through the darkness above, a

little parcel fell to the floor at my side.


Indifferently I groped for it, thinking it but some new invention of my jailers

to add to my sufferings.


At last I found it—a tiny package wrapped in paper, at the end of a

strong and slender cord. As I opened it a few lozenges fell to the floor. As I

gathered them up, feeling of them and smelling of them, I discovered that they

were tablets of concentrated food such as are quite common in all parts of

Barsoom.


Poison! I thought.


Well, what of it? Why not end my misery now rather than drag out a few more

wretched days in this dark pit? Slowly I raised one of the little pellets to my

lips.


“Good-bye, my Dejah Thoris!” I breathed. “I have lived for

you and fought for you, and now my next dearest wish is to be realized, for I

shall die for you,” and, taking the morsel in my mouth, I devoured it.


One by one I ate them all, nor ever did anything taste better than those tiny

bits of nourishment, within which I knew must lie the seeds of

death—possibly of some hideous, torturing death.


As I sat quietly upon the floor of my prison, waiting for the end, my fingers

by accident came in contact with the bit of paper in which the things had been

wrapped; and as I idly played with it, my mind roaming far back into the past,

that I might live again for a few brief moments before I died some of the many

happy moments of a long and happy life, I became aware of strange protuberances

upon the smooth surface of the parchment-like substance in my hands.


For a time they carried no special significance to my mind—I merely was

mildly wondrous that they were there; but at last they seemed to take form, and

then I realized that there was but a single line of them, like writing.


Now, more interestedly, my fingers traced and retraced them. There were four

separate and distinct combinations of raised lines. Could it be that these were

four words, and that they were intended to carry a message to me?


The more I thought of it the more excited I became, until my fingers raced

madly back and forth over those bewildering little hills and valleys upon that

bit of paper.


But I could make nothing of them, and at last I decided that my very haste was

preventing me from solving the mystery. Then I took it more slowly. Again and

again my forefinger traced the first of those four combinations.


Martian writing is rather difficult to explain to an Earth man—it is

something of a cross between shorthand and picture-writing, and is an entirely

different language from the spoken language of Mars.


Upon Barsoom there is but a single oral language.


It is spoken today by every race and nation, just as it was at the beginning of

human life upon Barsoom. It has grown with the growth of the planet’s

learning and scientific achievements, but so ingenious a thing it is that new

words to express new thoughts or describe new conditions or discoveries form

themselves—no other word could explain the thing that a new word is

required for other than the word that naturally falls to it, and so, no matter

how far removed two nations or races, their spoken languages are identical.


Not so their written languages, however. No two nations have the same written

language, and often cities of the same nation have a written language that

differs greatly from that of the nation to which they belong.


Thus it was that the signs upon the paper, if in reality they were words,

baffled me for some time; but at last I made out the first one.


It was “courage,” and it was written in the letters of Marentina.


Courage!


That was the word the yellow guardsman had whispered in my ear as I stood upon

the verge of the Pit of Plenty.


The message must be from him, and he I knew was a friend.


With renewed hope I bent my every energy to the deciphering of the balance of

the message, and at last success rewarded my endeavor—I had read the four

words:


“Courage! Follow the rope.”


“FOLLOW THE ROPE”


What could it mean?


“Follow the rope.” What rope?


Presently I recalled the cord that had been attached to the parcel when it fell

at my side, and after a little groping my hand came in contact with it again.

It depended from above, and when I pulled upon it I discovered that it was

rigidly fastened, possibly at the pit’s mouth.


Upon examination I found that the cord, though small, was amply able to sustain

the weight of several men. Then I made another discovery—there was a

second message knotted in the rope at about the height of my head. This I

deciphered more easily, now that the key was mine.


“Bring the rope with you. Beyond the knots lies danger.”


That was all there was to this message. It was evidently hastily

formed—an afterthought.


I did not pause longer than to learn the contents of the second message, and,

though I was none too sure of the meaning of the final admonition,

“Beyond the knots lies danger,” yet I was sure that here before me

lay an avenue of escape, and that the sooner I took advantage of it the more

likely was I to win to liberty.


At least, I could be but little worse off than I had been in the Pit of Plenty.


I was to find, however, ere I was well out of that damnable hole that I might

have been very much worse off had I been compelled to remain there another two

minutes.


It had taken me about that length of time to ascend some fifty feet above the

bottom when a noise above attracted my attention. To my chagrin I saw that the

covering of the pit was being removed far above me, and in the light of the

courtyard beyond I saw a number of yellow warriors.


Could it be that I was laboriously working my way into some new trap? Were the

messages spurious, after all? And then, just as my hope and courage had ebbed

to their lowest, I saw two things.


One was the body of a huge, struggling, snarling apt being lowered over the

side of the pit toward me, and the other was an aperture in the side of the

shaft—an aperture larger than a man’s body, into which my rope led.


Just as I scrambled into the dark hole before me the apt passed me, reaching

out with his mighty hands to clutch me, and snapping, growling, and roaring in

a most frightful manner.


Plainly now I saw the end for which Salensus Oll had destined me. After first

torturing me with starvation he had caused this fierce beast to be lowered into

my prison to finish the work that the jeddak’s hellish imagination had

conceived.


And then another truth flashed upon me—I had lived nine days of the

allotted ten which must intervene before Salensus Oll could make Dejah Thoris

his queen. The purpose of the apt was to insure my death before the tenth day.


I almost laughed aloud as I thought how Salensus Oll’s measure of safety

was to aid in defeating the very end he sought, for when they discovered that

the apt was alone in the Pit of Plenty they could not know but that he had

completely devoured me, and so no suspicion of my escape would cause a search

to be made for me.


Coiling the rope that had carried me thus far upon my strange journey, I sought

for the other end, but found that as I followed it forward it extended always

before me. So this was the meaning of the words: “Follow the rope.”


The tunnel through which I crawled was low and dark. I had followed it for

several hundred yards when I felt a knot beneath my fingers. “Beyond the

knots lies danger.”


Now I went with the utmost caution, and a moment later a sharp turn in the

tunnel brought me to an opening into a large, brilliantly lighted chamber.


The trend of the tunnel I had been traversing had been slightly upward, and

from this I judged that the chamber into which I now found myself looking must

be either on the first floor of the palace or directly beneath the first floor.


Upon the opposite wall were many strange instruments and devices, and in the

center of the room stood a long table, at which two men were seated in earnest

conversation.


He who faced me was a yellow man—a little, wizened-up, pasty-faced old

fellow with great eyes that showed the white round the entire circumference of

the iris.


His companion was a black man, and I did not need to see his face to know that

it was Thurid, for there was no other of the First Born north of the

ice-barrier.


Thurid was speaking as I came within hearing of the men’s voices.


“Solan,” he was saying, “there is no risk and the reward is

great. You know that you hate Salensus Oll and that nothing would please you

more than to thwart him in some cherished plan. There be nothing that he more

cherishes today than the idea of wedding the beautiful Princess of Helium; but

I, too, want her, and with your help I may win her.


“You need not more than step from this room for an instant when I give

you the signal. I will do the rest, and then, when I am gone, you may come and

throw the great switch back into its place, and all will be as before. I need

but an hour’s start to be safe beyond the devilish power that you control

in this hidden chamber beneath the palace of your master. See how easy,”

and with the words the black dator rose from his seat and, crossing the room,

laid his hand upon a large, burnished lever that protruded from the opposite

wall.


“No! No!” cried the little old man, springing after him, with a

wild shriek. “Not that one! Not that one! That controls the sunray tanks,

and should you pull it too far down, all Kadabra would be consumed by heat

before I could replace it. Come away! Come away! You know not with what mighty

powers you play. This is the lever that you seek. Note well the symbol inlaid

in white upon its ebon surface.”


Thurid approached and examined the handle of the lever.


“Ah, a magnet,” he said. “I will remember. It is settled then

I take it,” he continued.


The old man hesitated. A look of combined greed and apprehension overspread his

none too beautiful features.


“Double the figure,” he said. “Even that were all too small

an amount for the service you ask. Why, I risk my life by even entertaining you

here within the forbidden precincts of my station. Should Salensus Oll learn of

it he would have me thrown to the apts before the day was done.”


“He dare not do that, and you know it full well, Solan,”

contradicted the black. “Too great a power of life and death you hold

over the people of Kadabra for Salensus Oll ever to risk threatening you with

death. Before ever his minions could lay their hands upon you, you might seize

this very lever from which you have just warned me and wipe out the entire

city.”


“And myself into the bargain,” said Solan, with a shudder.


“But if you were to die, anyway, you would find the nerve to do

it,” replied Thurid.


“Yes,” muttered Solan, “I have often thought upon that very

thing. Well, First Born, is your red princess worth the price I ask for my

services, or will you go without her and see her in the arms of Salensus Oll

tomorrow night?”


“Take your price, yellow man,” replied Thurid, with an oath.

“Half now and the balance when you have fulfilled your contract.”


With that the dator threw a well-filled money-pouch upon the table.


Solan opened the pouch and with trembling fingers counted its contents. His

weird eyes assumed a greedy expression, and his unkempt beard and mustache

twitched with the muscles of his mouth and chin. It was quite evident from his

very mannerism that Thurid had keenly guessed the man’s

weakness—even the clawlike, clutching movement of the fingers betokened

the avariciousness of the miser.


Having satisfied himself that the amount was correct, Solan replaced the money

in the pouch and rose from the table.


“Now,” he said, “are you quite sure that you know the way to

your destination? You must travel quickly to cover the ground to the cave and

from thence beyond the Great Power, all within a brief hour, for no more dare I

spare you.”


“Let me repeat it to you,” said Thurid, “that you may see if

I be letter-perfect.”


“Proceed

directly in front of a roaring fireplace. Every living thing
      within a mile of the tower was obliterated. The power of the bomb was
      estimated to be equal to 20,000 tons of TNT, or equivalent to the bomb
      load of 2,000 B-29, Superfortresses!
    


blast (42K)


      After witnessing the awesome blast, Oppenheimer quoted a line from a
      sacred Hindu text, the Bhagavad-Gita: He said: "I am become death, the
      shatterer of worlds."6 In Los Alamos 230 miles to the
      north, a group of scientists' wives who had stayed up all night for the
      not so secret test, saw the light and heard the distant sound. One wife,
      Jane Wilson, described it this way, "Then it came. The blinding light [no]
      one had ever seen. The trees, illuminated, leaping out. The mountains
      flashing into life. Later, the long slow rumble. Something had happened,
      all right, for good or ill."7


      General Groves' deputy commander, Brigadier General T. F. Farrell,
      described the explosion in great detail: "The effects could well be called
      unprecedented, magnificent, beautiful, stupendous, and terrifying. No
      man-made phenomenon of such tremendous power had ever occurred before. The
      lighting effects beggared description. The whole country was lighted by a
      searing light with the intensity many times that of the midday sun. It was
      golden, purple, violet, gray, and blue. It lighted every peak, crevasse
      and ridge of the nearby mountain range with a clarity and beauty that
      cannot be described but must be seen to be imagined..."8


      Immediately after the test a Sherman M-4 tank, equipped with its own air
      supply, and lined with two inches of lead went out to explore the site.
      The lead lining added 12 tons to the tank's weight, but was necessary to
      protect its occupants from the radiation levels at ground zero. The tank's
      passengers found that the 100-foot steel tower had virtually disappeared,
      with only the metal and concrete stumps of its four legs remaining.
      Surrounding ground zero was a crater almost 2,400 feet across and about
      ten feet deep in places. Desert sand around the tower had been fused by
      the intense heat of the blast into a jade colored glass. This atomic glass
      was given the name Atomsite, but the name was later changed to Trinitite.
    


crater (59K)


      Due to the intense secrecy surrounding the test, no accurate information
      of what happened was released to the public until after the second atomic
      bomb had been dropped on Japan. However, many people in New Mexico were
      well aware that something extraordinary had happened the morning of July
      16, 1945. The blinding flash of light, followed by the shock wave had made
      a vivid impression on people who lived within a radius of 160 miles of
      ground zero. Windows were shattered 120 miles away in Silver City, and
      residents of Albuquerque saw the bright light of the explosion on the
      southern horizon and felt the tremor of the shock waves moments later.
    

      The true story of the Trinity test first became known to the public on
      August 6, 1945. This is when the world's second nuclear bomb, nicknamed
      Little Boy, exploded 1,850 feet over Hiroshima, Japan, destroying a large
      portion of the city and killing an estimated 70,000 to 130,000 of its
      inhabitants. Three days later on August 9, a third atomic bomb devastated
      the city of Nagasaki and killed approximately 45,000 more Japanese. The
      Nagasaki weapon was a plutonium bomb, similar to the Trinity device, and
      it was nicknamed Fat Man. On Tuesday August 14, at 7 p.m. Eastern War
      Time, President Truman made a brief formal announcement that Japan had
      finally surrendered and World War II was over after almost six years and
      60 million deaths!
    

      On Sunday, September 9, 1945, Trinity Site was opened to the press for the
      first time. This was mainly to dispel rumors of lingering high radiation
      levels there, as well as in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Led by General Groves
      and Oppenheimer, this widely publicized visit made Trinity front page news
      all over the country.
    

      Trinity Site was later encircled with more than a mile of chain link
      fencing and posted with signs warning of radioactivity. In the early 1950s
      most of the remaining Trinitite in the crater was bulldozed into a
      underground concrete bunker near Trinity. Also at this time the crater was
      back filled with new soil. In 1963 the Trinitite was removed from the
      bunker, packed into 55-gallon drums, and loaded into trucks belonging to
      the Atomic Energy Commission (the successor of the Manhattan Project).
      Trinity site remained off-limits to military and civilian personnel of the
      range and closed to the public for many years, despite attempts
      immediately after the war to turn Trinity into a national monument.
    

      In 1953 about 700 people attended the first Trinity Site open house
      sponsored by the Alamogordo Chamber of Commerce and the Missile Range. Two
      years later, a small group from Tularosa, NM visited the site on the 10th
      anniversary of the explosion to conduct a religious service and pray for
      peace.
    

      Regular visits have been made annually in recent years on the first
      Saturday in October instead of the anniversary date of July 16, to avoid
      the desert heat. Later Trinity Site was opened one additional day on the
      first Saturday in April. The Site remains closed to the public except for
      these two days, because it lies within the impact areas for missiles fired
      into the northern part of the Range.
    

      In 1965, Range officials erected a modest monument at Ground Zero. Built
      of black lava rock, this monument serves as a permanent marker for the
      site and as a reminder of the momentous event that occurred there. On the
      monument is a plain metal plaque with this simple inscription: "Trinity
      Site Where the World's First Nuclear Device Was Exploded on July 16,
      1945."
    

      During the annual tour in 1975, a second plaque was added below the first
      by The National Park Service, designating Trinity Site a National Historic
      Landmark. This plaque reads, "This site possesses national significance in
      commemorating the history of the U.S.A."
    


 


      JUMBO
    

      Lying next to the entrance of the chain link fence that still surrounds
      Trinity Site are the rusty remains of Jumbo. Jumbo was the code name for
      the 214-ton Thermos shaped steel and concrete container designed to hold
      the precious plutonium core of the Trinity device in case of a nuclear
      mis-fire. Built by the Babcock and Wilcox Company of Barberton, Ohio,
      Jumbo was 28 feet long, 12 feet, 8 inches in diameter, and with steel
      walls up to 16 inches thick.
    


jumbo (57K)


      The idea of using some kind of container for the Trinity device was based
      on the fact that plutonium was extremely expensive and very difficult to
      produce. So, much thought went into a way of containing the 15 lb.
      plutonium core of the bomb, in case the 5,300 lbs. of conventional high
      explosives surrounding the core exploded without setting off a nuclear
      blast, and in the process scattering the costly plutonium (about 250
      million dollars worth) across the dessert. After extensive research and
      testing of other potential containment ideas, the concept of Jumbo was
      decided on in the late summer of 1944.
    

      However, by the spring of 1945, after Jumbo had already been built and
      transported (with great difficulty) to the Trinity Site by the Eichleay
      Corporation of Pittsburgh, it was decided not to explode the Trinity
      device inside of Jumbo after all. There were several reasons for this new
      decision: first, plutonium had become more readily (relatively) available;
      second, the Project scientists decided that the Trinity device would
      probably work as planned; and last, the scientists realized that if Jumbo
      were used it would adversely affect the test results, and add 214 tons of
      highly radioactive material to the atmosphere.
    

      Not knowing what else to do with the massive 12 million dollar Jumbo, it
      was decided to suspend it from a steel tower 800 yards from Ground Zero to
      see how it would withstand the Trinity test. Jumbo survived the
      approximately 20 kiloton Trinity blast undamaged, but its supporting
      70-foot tall steel tower was flattened.
    

      Two years later, in an attempt to destroy the unused Jumbo before it and
      its 12 million dollar cost came to the attention of a congressional
      investigating committee, Manhattan Project Director General Groves ordered
      two junior officers from the Special Weapons Division at Sandia Army Base
      in Albuquerque to test Jumbo. The Army officers placed eight 500-pound
      conventional bombs in the bottom of Jumbo. Since the bombs were on the
      bottom of Jumbo, and not the center (the correct position), the resultant
      explosion blew both ends off Jumbo. Unable to totally destroy Jumbo, the
      Army then buried it in the desert near Trinity Site. It was not until the
      early 1970s that the impressive remains of Jumbo, still weighing over 180
      tons, were moved to their present location.
    


 


      SCHMIDT-McDONALD RANCH HOUSE
    

      The Schmidt-McDonald ranch house is located two miles south of Ground
      Zero. The property encompasses about three acres and consists of the main
      house and assorted outbuildings. The house, surrounded by a low stone
      wall, was built in 1913 by Franz Schmidt, a German immigrant and
      homesteader. In the 1920s Schmidt sold the ranch to George McDonald and
      moved to Florida.
    

      The ranch house is a one-story, 1,750 square-foot adobe (mud bricks)
      building. An ice house is located on the west side along with an 9'-4"
      deep underground cistern. A 14 by 18.5 foot stone addition, which included
      a modern bathroom, was added onto the north side in the 1930s. East of the
      house there is a large, divided concrete water storage tank and a
      windmill. South of the windmill are the remains of a bunkhouse, and a barn
      which also served as a garage. Further to the east are corrals and holding
      pens for livestock.
    


mcdonald (69K)


      The McDonalds vacated their ranch house and their thousands of acres of
      marginal range land in early 1942 when it became part of the Alamogordo
      Bombing and Gunnery Range. The old house remained empty until Manhattan
      Project personnel arrived in 1945. Then a spacious room in the northeast
      corner of the house was selected by the Project personnel for the assembly
      of the plutonium core of the Trinity device. Workmen installed work
      benches, tables, and other equipment in this large room. To keep the
      desert dust and sand out, the room's windows and cracks were covered with
      plastic and sealed with tape. The core of the bomb consisted of two
      hemispheres of plutonium, (Pu-239), and an initiator. According to
      reports, while scientists assembled the initiator and the Pu-239
      hemispheres, jeeps were positioned outside with their engines running for
      a quick getaway if needed. Detection devices were used to monitor
      radiation levels in the room, and when fully assembled the core was warm
      to the touch. The completed core was later transported the two miles to
      Ground Zero, inserted into the bomb assembly, and raised to the top of the
      tower.
    

      The Trinity explosion on Monday morning, July 16, did not significantly
      damage the McDonald house. Even though most of the windows were blown out,
      and the chimney was blown over, the main structure survived intact. Years
      of rain water dripping through holes in the metal roof did much more
      damage to the mud brick walls than the bomb did. The nearby barn did not
      fare as well. The Trinity test blew part of its roof off, and the roof has
      since totally collapsed.
    

      The ranch house stood empty and deteriorating for 37 years until 1982 when
      the US Army stabilized it to prevent any further damage. The next year,
      the Department of Energy and the Army provided funds for the National Park
      Service to completely restore the house to the way it appeared in July,
      1945. When the work was completed, the house with many photo displays on
      Trinity was opened to the public for the first time in October 1984 during
      the semi-annual tour. The Schmidt-McDonald ranch house is part of the
      Trinity National Historic Landmark.
    


 


      FOOTNOTES
    


      1 (return) [ Szasz, Ferenc. The Day the
      Sun Rose Twice. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, 1984. p. 28.]
    


      2 (return) [ Hayward, John, ed. John
      Donne: Complete Poetry and Selected Prose. New York: Random House, Inc.,
      1949. p. 285.]
    


      3 (return) [ Szasz, The Day the Sun Rose
      Twice, p. 40.]
    


      4 (return) [ Wyden, Peter. Day One:
      Before Hiroshima and After. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1984. p. 204.]
    


      5 (return) [ Lamont, Lansing. Day of
      Trinity. New York: Atheneum, 1965. p. 123-124.]
    


      6 (return) [ Kunetka, James W. City of
      Fire: Los Alamos and the Atomic Age, 1943-1945. Albuquerque: University of
      New Mexico Press, 1978. p. 170.]
    


      7 (return) [ Wilson, Jane S. and
      Charlotte Serber, eds. Standing By and Making Do: Women in Wartime Los
      Alamos. Los Alamos: Los Alamos Historical Society, 1988. p. x, xi.]
    


      8 (return) [ Brown, Anthony Cave, and
      Charles B. MacDonald. The Secret History of the Atomic Bomb. New York:
      Dell, 1977. p. 516.]
    


 


      BIBLIOGRAPHY
    

      Bainbridge, Kenneth T. Trinity. Los Alamos: Los Alamos Scientific
      Laboratory, (La-6300-H), 1946.
    

      Brown, Anthony Cave, and Charles B. MacDonald. The Secret History of the
      Atomic Bomb. New York: Dell, 1977.
    

      Compton, Arthur Holly. Atomic Quest: A Personal Quest. New York: Oxford
      University Press, 1956.
    

      Fanton, Jonathan F., Stoff, Michael B. and Williams, R. Hal editors. The
      Manhattan Project: A Documentary Introduction to the Atomic Age.
      Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1991.
    

      Feis, Herbert. Japan Subdued: The Atomic Bomb and the End of the War in
      the Pacific. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1961.
    

      Groves, Leslie R. Now it Can be Told: The Story of the Manhattan Project.
      New York: Da Capo Press, 1975.
    

      Hersey, John. Hiroshima. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1946.
    

      Jette, Eleanor. Inside Box 1663. Los Alamos: Los Alamos Historical
      Society, 1977.
    

      Kunetka, James W. City of Fire: Los Alamos and the Atomic Age, 1943-1945.
      Albuquerque; University of New Mexico Press, 1978.
    

      Lamont, Lansing. Day of Trinity. New York: Athenaeum, 1965.
    

      Rhodes, Richard. The Making of the Atomic Bomb. New York: Simon and
      Schuster, 1986.
    

      Skates, John Ray. The Invasion of Japan: Alternative to the Bomb.
      Columbia; University of South Carolina Press, 1994.
    

      Smyth, Henry DeWolf. Atomic Energy for Military Purposes. Princeton:
      Princeton University Press, 1948.
    

      Szasz, Ferenc. The Day the Sun Rose Twice. Albuquerque: University of New
      Mexico Press, 1984.
    

      Tibbets, Paul W. Flight of the Enola Gay. Reynoldsburg, Ohio: Buckeye
      Aviation Book Company, 1989.
    

      Williams, Robert C. Klaus Fuchs, Atom Spy. Cambridge, Massachusetts:
      Harvard University Press, 1987.
    

      Wilson, Jane S. and Serber, Charlotte, eds. Standing By and Making Do:
      Women in Wartime Los Alamos. Los Alamos: Los Alamos Historical Society,
      1988.
    

      Wyden, Peter. Day One: Before Hiroshima and After. New York: Simon and
      Schuster, 1984.
    


 


      THE NATIONAL ATOMIC MUSEUM,
    

      Kirtland Air Force Base, Albuquerque, New Mexico
    

      Since its opening in 1969, the objective of the National Atomic museum has
      been to provide a readily accessible repository of educational materials,
      and information on the Atomic Age. In addition, the museum's goal is to
      preserve, interpret, and exhibit to the public memorabilia of this Age. In
      late 1991 the museum was chartered by Congress as the United States' only
      official Atomic museum.
    

      Prominently featured in the museum's high bay is the story of the
      Manhattan Engineer District, the unprecedented 2.2 billion dollar
      scientific-engineering project that was centered in New Mexico during
      World War II. The Manhattan Project as it was more commonly called,
      developed, built, and tested the world's first Atomic bomb in New Mexico.
      This display also includes casings similar to the only Atomic bombs ever
      used in warfare. Dropped on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki,
      these two bombs helped bring World War II to an end in mid-August 1945.
      The story of the Manhattan Project's three secret cities, Hanford,
      Washington, Los Alamos, New Mexico, and Oak Ridge, Tennessee, is also
      presented in this area.
    

      A portion of the museum, the low bay, is devoted to exhibits on the
      research, development, and use of various forms of nuclear energy.
      Historical and other traveling exhibits are also displayed in this area.
      Also found in the low bay is the museum's store, which is operated by the
      museum's foundation.
    

      Adjacent to the low bay is the theater. The featured film is David Wolpers
      classic 1963 production, Ten Seconds That Shook The World. This excellent
      film is a 53-minute documentary on the Manhattan Project. Other films
      relating to the history of the Atomic Age are available for viewing and
      checkout from the library.
    

      Next to the theater is the library/Department of Energy public reading
      room, containing government documents that are available to the public for
      in-library research. The library also has many nuclear related books
      available for reference and checkout.
    

      Located around the outside of the museum are a number of large exhibits.
      These include the Boeing B-52B jet bomber that dropped the United States'
      last air burst H-bomb in 1962, and a 280-mm (11 inches) Atomic cannon,
      once America's most powerful field artillery. Also found in this area is a
      Navy TA-7C (a modified A-7B) Corsair II fighter-bomber, a veteran of the
      Vietnam War. Many other nuclear weapons systems, rockets, and missiles are
      found in this area.
    

      In front of the museum are a pair of Navy Terrier missiles. The Terrier
      was the Navy's first operational surface to air missile. To the south of
      the museum, next to the visitors parking lot, is a Republic F-105D
      Thunderchief fighter-bomber. Further south is a World War I

 even that

      was better than a watery tomb. In fine, the public voice—and

      rightly, perhaps—was against the admission of the skirted animal:

      spite the precedent of Atalanta, who was one of the original crew.

    


      “And now,” said Edward, “who's to ask Farmer Larkin? I can't; last time I

      saw him he said when he caught me again he'd smack my head. YOU'LL have

      to.”

     


      I hesitated, for good reasons. “You know those precious calves of his?” I

      began.

    


      Edward understood at once. “All right,” he said; “then we won't ask him at

      all. It doesn't much matter. He'd only be annoyed, and that would be a

      pity. Now let's set off.”

     


      We made our way down to the stream, and captured the farmer's boat without

      let or hindrance, the enemy being engaged in the hayfields. This “river,”

       so called, could never be discovered by us in any atlas; indeed our Argo

      could hardly turn in it without risk of shipwreck. But to us 't was

      Orinoco, and the cities of the world dotted its shores. We put the Argo's

      head up stream, since that led away from the Larkin province; Harold was

      faithfully permitted to be Jason, and we shared the rest of the heroes

      among us. Then launching forth from Thessaly, we threaded the Hellespont

      with shouts, breathlessly dodged the Clashing Rocks, and coasted under the

      lee of the Siren-haunted isles. Lemnos was fringed with meadow-sweet,

      dog-roses dotted the Mysian shore, and the cheery call of the haymaking

      folk sounded along the coast of Thrace.

    


      After some hour or two's seafaring, the prow of the Argo embedded itself

      in the mud of a landing-place, plashy with the tread of cows and giving on

      to a lane that led towards the smoke of human habitations. Edward jumped

      ashore, alert for exploration, and strode off without waiting to see if we

      followed; but I lingered behind, having caught sight of a moss-grown

      water-gate hard by, leading into a garden that from the brooding quiet

      lapping it round, appeared to portend magical possibilities.

    


      Indeed the very air within seemed stiller, as we circumspectly passed

      through the gate; and Harold hung back shamefaced, as if we were crossing

      the threshold of some private chamber, and ghosts of old days were

      hustling past us. Flowers there were, everywhere; but they drooped and

      sprawled in an overgrowth hinting at indifference; the scent of heliotrope

      possessed the place, as if actually hung in solid festoons from tall

      untrimmed hedge to hedge. No basket-chairs, shawls, or novels dotted the

      lawn with colour; and on the garden-front of the house behind, the blinds

      were mostly drawn. A grey old sun-dial dominated the central sward, and we

      moved towards it instinctively, as the most human thing visible. An

      antique motto ran round it, and with eyes and fingers we struggled at the

      decipherment.

    


      “TIME: TRYETH: TROTHE:” spelt out Harold at last. “I wonder what that

      means?”

     


      I could not enlighten him, nor meet his further questions as to the inner

      mechanism of the thing, and where you wound it up.

    


      I had seen these instruments before, of course, but had never fully

      understood their manner of working.

    


      We were still puzzling our heads over the contrivance, when I became aware

      that Medea herself was moving down the path from the house. Dark-haired,

      supple, of a figure lightly poised and swayed, but pale and listless—I

      knew her at once, and having come out to find her, naturally felt no

      surprise at all. But Harold, who was trying to climb on the top of the

      sun-dial, having a cat-like fondness for the summit of things, started and

      fell prone, barking his chin and filling the pleasance with lamentation.

    


      Medea skimmed the ground swallow-like, and in a moment was on her knees

      comforting him,—wiping the dirt out of his chin with her own dainty

      handkerchief,—and vocal with soft murmur of consolation.

    


      “You needn't take on so about him,” I observed, politely. “He'll cry for

      just one minute, and then he'll be all right.”

     


      My estimate was justified. At the end of his regulation time Harold

      stopped crying suddenly, like a clock that had struck its hour; and with a

      serene and cheerful countenance wriggled out of Medea's embrace, and ran

      for a stone to throw at an intrusive blackbird.

    


      “O you boys!” cried Medea, throwing wide her arms with abandonment. “Where

      have you dropped from? How dirty you are! I've been shut up here for a

      thousand years, and all that time I've never seen any one under a hundred

      and fifty! Let's play at something, at once!”

     


      “Rounders is a good game,” I suggested. “Girls can play at rounders. And

      we could serve up to the sun-dial here. But you want a bat and a ball, and

      some more people.”

     


      She struck her hands together tragically. “I haven't a bat,” she cried,

      “or a ball, or more people, or anything sensible whatever. Never mind;

      let's play at hide-and-seek in the kitchen garden. And we'll race there,

      up to that walnut-tree; I haven't run for a century!”

     


      She was so easy a victor, nevertheless, that I began to doubt, as I panted

      behind, whether she had not exaggerated her age by a year or two. She

      flung herself into hide-and-seek with all the gusto and abandonment of the

      true artist, and as she flitted away and reappeared, flushed and laughing

      divinely, the pale witch-maiden seemed to fall away from her, and she

      moved rather as that other girl I had read about, snatched from fields of

      daffodil to reign in shadow below, yet permitted once again to visit

      earth, and light, and the frank, caressing air.

    


      Tired at last, we strolled back to the old sundial, and Harold, who never

      relinquished a problem unsolved, began afresh, rubbing his finger along

      the faint incisions, “Time tryeth trothe. Please, I want to know what that

      means.”

     


      Medea's face drooped low over the sun-dial, till it was almost hidden in

      her fingers. “That's what I'm here for,” she said presently, in quite a

      changed, low voice. “They shut me up here—they think I'll forget—but

      I never will—never, never! And he, too—but I don't know—it

      is so long—I don't know!”

     


      Her face was quite hidden now. There was silence again in the old garden.

      I felt clumsily helpless and awkward; beyond a vague idea of kicking

      Harold, nothing remedial seemed to suggest itself.

    


      None of us had noticed the approach of another she-creature—one of

      the angular and rigid class—how different from our dear comrade! The

      years Medea had claimed might well have belonged to her; she wore mittens,

      too—a trick I detested in woman. “Lucy!” she said, sharply, in a

      tone with AUNT writ large over it; and Medea started up guiltily.

    


      “You've been crying,” said the newcomer, grimly regarding her through

      spectacles. “And pray who are these exceedingly dirty little boys?”

     


      “Friends of mine, aunt,” said Medea, promptly, with forced cheerfulness.

      “I—I've known them a long time. I asked them to come.”

     


      The aunt sniffed suspiciously. “You must come indoors, dear,” she said,

      “and lie down. The sun will give you a headache. And you little boys had

      better run away home to your tea. Remember, you should not come to pay

      visits without your nursemaid.”

     


      Harold had been tugging nervously at my jacket for some time, and I only

      waited till Medea turned and kissed a white hand to us as she was led

      away. Then I ran. We gained the boat in safety; and “What an old dragon!”

       said Harold.

    


      “Wasn't she a beast!” I replied. “Fancy the sun giving any one a headache!

      But Medea was a real brick. Couldn't we carry her off?”

     


      “We could if Edward was here,” said Harold, confidently.

    


      The question was, What had become of that defaulting hero? We were not

      left long in doubt. First, there came down the lane the shrill and

      wrathful clamour of a female tongue, then Edward, running his best, and

      then an excited woman hard on his heel. Edward tumbled into the bottom of

      the boat, gasping, “Shove her off!” And shove her off we did, mightily,

      while the dame abused us from the bank in the self same accents in which

      Alfred hurled defiance at the marauding Dane.

    


      “That was just like a bit out of Westward Ho!” I remarked approvingly, as

      we sculled down the stream. “But what had you been doing to her?”

     


      “Hadn't been doing anything,” panted Edward, still breathless. “I went up

      into the village and explored, and it was a very nice one, and the people

      were very polite. And there was a blacksmith's forge there, and they were

      shoeing horses, and the hoofs fizzled and smoked, and smelt so jolly! I

      stayed there quite a long time. Then I got thirsty, so I asked that old

      woman for some water, and while she was getting it her cat came out of the

      cottage, and looked at me in a nasty sort of way, and said something I

      didn't like. So I went up to it just to—to teach it manners, and

      somehow or other, next minute it was up an apple-tree, spitting, and I was

      running down the lane with that old thing after me.”

     


      Edward was so full of his personal injuries that there was no interesting

      him in Medea at all. Moreover, the evening was closing in, and it was

      evident that this cutting-out expedition must be kept for another day. As

      we neared home, it gradually occurred to us that perhaps the greatest

      danger was yet to come; for the farmer must have missed his boat ere now,

      and would probably be lying in wait for us near the landing-place. There

      was no other spot admitting of debarcation on the home side; if we got out

      on the other, and made for the bridge, we should certainly be seen and cut

      off. Then it was that I blessed my stars that our elder brother was with

      us that day,—he might be little good at pretending, but in grappling

      with the stern facts of life he had no equal. Enjoining silence, he waited

      till we were but a little way from the fated landing-place, and then

      brought us in to the opposite bank. We scrambled out noiselessly, and—the

      gathering darkness favouring us—crouched behind a willow, while

      Edward pushed off the empty boat with his foot. The old Argo, borne down

      by the gentle current, slid and grazed along the rushy bank; and when she

      came opposite the suspected ambush, a stream of imprecation told us that

      our precaution had not been wasted. We wondered, as we listened, where

      Farmer Larkin, who was bucolically bred and reared, had acquired such

      range and wealth of vocabulary. Fully realising at last that his boat was

      derelict, abandoned, at the mercy of wind and wave,—as well as out

      of his reach,—he strode away to the bridge, about a quarter of a

      mile further down; and as soon as we heard his boots clumping on the

      planks, we nipped out, recovered the craft, pulled across, and made the

      faithful vessel fast to her proper moorings. Edward was anxious to wait

      and exchange courtesies and compliments with the disappointed farmer, when

      he should confront us on the opposite bank; but wiser counsels prevailed.

      It was possible that the piracy was not yet laid at our particular door:

      Ulysses, I reminded him, had reason to regret a similar act of bravado,

      and—were he here—would certainly advise a timely retreat.

      Edward held but a low opinion of me as a counsellor; but he had a very

      solid respect for Ulysses.

    


 


      THE ROMAN ROAD

    


      ALL the roads of our neighbourhood were cheerful and friendly, having each

      of them pleasant qualities of their own; but this one seemed different

      from the others in its masterful suggestion of a serious purpose, speeding

      you along with a strange uplifting of the heart. The others tempted

      chiefly with their treasures of hedge and ditch; the rapt surprise of the

      first lords-and-ladies, the rustle of a field-mouse, splash of a frog;

      while cool noses of brother-beasts were pushed at you through gate or gap.

      A loiterer you had need to be, did you choose one of them,—so many

      were the tiny hands thrust out to detain you, from this side and that. But

      this other was of a sterner sort, and even in its shedding off of bank and

      hedgerow as it marched straight and full for the open downs, it seemed to

      declare its contempt for adventitious trappings to catch the

      shallow-pated. When the sense of injustice or disappointment was heavy on

      me, and things were very black within, as on this particular day, the road

      of character was my choice for that solitary ramble, when I turned my back

      for an afternoon on a world that had unaccountably declared itself against

      me.

    


      “The Knights' Road,” we children had named it, from a sort of feeling

      that, if from any quarter at all, it would be down this track we might

      some day see Lancelot and his peers come pacing on their great war-horses,—supposing

      that any of the stout band still survived, in nooks and unexplored places.

      Grown-up people sometimes spoke of it as the “Pilgrims' Way”; but I didn't

      know much about pilgrims,—except Walter in the Horselberg story. Him

      I sometimes saw, breaking with haggard eyes out of yonder copse, and

      calling to the pilgrims as they hurried along on their desperate march to

      the Holy City, where peace and pardon were awaiting them. “All roads lead

      to Rome,” I had once heard somebody say; and I had taken the remark very

      seriously, of course, and puzzled over it many days. There must have been

      some mistake, I concluded at last; but of one road at least I intuitively

      felt it to be true. And my belief was clinched by something that fell from

      Miss Smedley during a history lesson, about a strange road that ran right

      down the middle of England till it reached the coast, and then began again

      in France, just opposite, and so on undeviating, through city and

      vineyard, right from the misty Highlands to the Eternal City.

      Uncorroborated, any statement of Miss Smedley's usually fell on

      incredulous ears; but here, with the road itself in evidence, she seemed,

      once, in a way, to have strayed into truth.

    


      Rome! It was fascinating to think that it lay at the other end of this

      white ribbon that rolled itself off from my feet over the distant downs. I

      was not quite so uninstructed as to imagine l could reach it that

      afternoon; but some day, I thought, if things went on being as unpleasant

      as they were now,—some day, when Aunt Eliza had gone on a visit,—we

      would see.

    


      I tried to imagine what it would be like when I got there. The Coliseum I

      knew, of course, from a woodcut in the history-book: so to begin with I

      plumped that down in the middle. The rest had to be patched up from the

      little grey market-town where twice a year we went to have our hair cut;

      hence, in the result, Vespasian's amphitheatre was approached by muddy

      little streets, wherein the Red Lion and the Blue Boar, with Somebody's

      Entire along their front, and “Commercial Room” on their windows; the

      doctor's house, of substantial red-brick; and the facade of the New

      Wesleyan Chapel, which we thought very fine, were the chief architectural

      ornaments: while the Roman populace pottered about in smocks and

      corduroys, twisting the tails of Roman calves and inviting each other to

      beer in musical Wessex. From Rome I drifted on to other cities, dimly

      heard of—Damascus, Brighton (Aunt Eliza's ideal), Athens, and

      Glasgow, whose glories the gardener sang; but there was a certain sameness

      in my conception of all of them: that Wesleyan chapel would keep cropping

      up everywhere. It was easier to go a-building among those dream-cities

      where no limitations were imposed, and one was sole architect, with a free

      hand. Down a delectable street of cloud-built palaces I was mentally

      pacing, when I happened upon the Artist.

    


      He was seated at work by the roadside, at a point whence the cool large

      spaces of the downs, juniper-studded, swept grandly westwards. His

      attributes proclaimed him of the artist tribe: besides, he wore

      knickerbockers like myself,—a garb confined, I was aware, to boys

      and artists. I knew I was not to bother him with questions, nor look over

      his shoulder and breathe in his ear—they didn't like it, this genus

      irritabile; but there was nothing about staring in my code of

      instructions, the point having somehow been overlooked: so, squatting down

      on the grass, I devoted myself to a passionate absorbing of every detail.

      At the end of five minutes there was not a button on him that I could not

      have passed an examination in; and the wearer himself of that homespun

      suit was probably less familiar with its pattern and texture than I was.

      Once he looked up, nodded, half held out his tobacco pouch,—mechanically,

      as it were,—then, returning it to his pocket, resumed his work, and

      I my mental photography.

    


      After another five minutes or so had passed he remarked, without looking

      my way: “Fine afternoon we're having: going far to-day?”

     


      “No, I'm not going any farther than this,” I replied; “I WAS thinking of

      going on to Rome but I've put it off.”

     


      “Pleasant place, Rome,” he murmured; “you'll like it.” It was some minutes

      later that he added: “But I wouldn't go just now, if I were you,—too

      jolly hot.”

     


      “YOU haven't been to Rome, have you?” I inquired.

    


      “Rather,” he replied, briefly; “I live there.”

     


      This was too much, and my jaw dropped as I struggled to grasp the fact

      that I was sitting there talking to a fellow who lived in Rome. Speech was

      out of the question: besides, I had other things to do. Ten solid minutes

      had I already spent in an examination of him as a mere stranger and

      artist; and now the whole thing had to be done over again, from the

      changed point of view. So I began afresh, at the crown of his soft hat,

      and worked down to his solid Briti

ncapable of doing anything disloyal.”

     


      “You mean to lie here, then, smelling your roses and nursing your visions,

      and leaving your mother and Miss Garland to fall ill with anxiety?”

     


      “Can I go and flaunt my felicity in their faces? Wait till I get used to

      it a trifle. I have done them a palpable wrong, but I can at least forbear

      to add insult to injury. I may be an arrant fool, but, for the moment, I

      have taken it into my head to be prodigiously pleased. I should n’t be

      able to conceal it; my pleasure would offend them; so I lock myself up as

      a dangerous character.”

     


      “Well, I can only say, ‘May your pleasure never grow less, or your danger

      greater!’”

     


      Roderick closed his eyes again, and sniffed at his rose. “God’s will be

      done!”

     


      On this Rowland left him and repaired directly to Mrs. Light’s. This

      afflicted lady hurried forward to meet him. Since the Cavaliere’s report

      of her condition she had somewhat smoothed and trimmed the exuberance of

      her distress, but she was evidently in extreme tribulation, and she

      clutched Rowland by his two hands, as if, in the shipwreck of her hopes,

      he were her single floating spar. Rowland greatly pitied her, for there is

      something respectable in passionate grief, even in a very bad cause; and

      as pity is akin to love, he endured her rather better than he had done

      hitherto.

    


      “Speak to her, plead with her, command her!” she cried, pressing and

      shaking his hands. “She ‘ll not heed us, no more than if we were a pair of

      clocks a-ticking. Perhaps she will listen to you; she always liked you.”

     


      “She always disliked me,” said Rowland. “But that does n’t matter now. I

      have come here simply because you sent for me, not because I can help you.

      I cannot advise your daughter.”

     


      “Oh, cruel, deadly man! You must advise her; you shan’t leave this house

      till you have advised her!” the poor woman passionately retorted. “Look at

      me in my misery and refuse to help me! Oh, you need n’t be afraid, I know

      I ‘m a fright, I have n’t an idea what I have on. If this goes on, we may

      both as well turn scarecrows. If ever a woman was desperate, frantic,

      heart-broken, I am that woman. I can’t begin to tell you. To have

      nourished a serpent, sir, all these years! to have lavished one’s self

      upon a viper that turns and stings her own poor mother! To have toiled and

      prayed, to have pushed and struggled, to have eaten the bread of

      bitterness, and all the rest of it, sir—and at the end of all things

      to find myself at this pass. It can’t be, it ‘s too cruel, such things

      don’t happen, the Lord don’t allow it. I ‘m a religious woman, sir, and

      the Lord knows all about me. With his own hand he had given me his reward!

      I would have lain down in the dust and let her walk over me; I would have

      given her the eyes out of my head, if she had taken a fancy to them. No,

      she ‘s a cruel, wicked, heartless, unnatural girl! I speak to you, Mr.

      Mallet, in my dire distress, as to my only friend. There is n’t a creature

      here that I can look to—not one of them all that I have faith in.

      But I always admired you. I said to Christina the first time I saw you

      that there at last was a real gentleman. Come, don’t disappoint me now! I

      feel so terribly alone, you see; I feel what a nasty, hard, heartless

      world it is that has come and devoured my dinners and danced to my

      fiddles, and yet that has n’t a word to throw to me in my agony! Oh, the

      money, alone, that I have put into this thing, would melt the heart of a

      Turk!”

     


      During this frenzied outbreak Rowland had had time to look round the room,

      and to see the Cavaliere sitting in a corner, like a major-domo on the

      divan of an antechamber, pale, rigid, and inscrutable.

    


      “I have it at heart to tell you,” Rowland said, “that if you consider my

      friend Hudson”—

    


      Mrs. Light gave a toss of her head and hands. “Oh, it ‘s not that. She

      told me last night to bother her no longer with Hudson, Hudson! She did

      n’t care a button for Hudson. I almost wish she did; then perhaps one

      might understand it. But she does n’t care for anything in the wide world,

      except to do her own hard, wicked will, and to crush me and shame me with

      her cruelty.”

     


      “Ah, then,” said Rowland, “I am as much at sea as you, and my presence

      here is an impertinence. I should like to say three words to Miss Light on

      my own account. But I must absolutely and inexorably decline to urge the

      cause of Prince Casamassima. This is simply impossible.”

     


      Mrs. Light burst into angry tears. “Because the poor boy is a prince, eh?

      because he ‘s of a great family, and has an income of millions, eh? That

      ‘s why you grudge him and hate him. I knew there were vulgar people of

      that way of feeling, but I did n’t expect it of you. Make an effort, Mr.

      Mallet; rise to the occasion; forgive the poor fellow his splendor. Be

      just, be reasonable! It ‘s not his fault, and it ‘s not mine. He ‘s the

      best, the kindest young man in the world, and the most correct and moral

      and virtuous! If he were standing here in rags, I would say it all the

      same. The man first—the money afterwards: that was always my motto,

      and always will be. What do you take me for? Do you suppose I would give

      Christina to a vicious person? do you suppose I would sacrifice my

      precious child, little comfort as I have in her, to a man against whose

      character one word could be breathed? Casamassima is only too good, he ‘s

      a saint of saints, he ‘s stupidly good! There is n’t such another in the

      length and breadth of Europe. What he has been through in this house, not

      a common peasant would endure. Christina has treated him as you would n’t

      treat a dog. He has been insulted, outraged, persecuted! He has been

      driven hither and thither till he did n’t know where he was. He has stood

      there where you stand—there, with his name and his millions and his

      devotion—as white as your handkerchief, with hot tears in his eyes,

      and me ready to go down on my knees to him and say, ‘My own sweet prince,

      I could kiss the ground you tread on, but it is n’t decent that I should

      allow you to enter my house and expose yourself to these horrors again.’ 

      And he would come back, and he would come back, and go through it all

      again, and take all that was given him, and only want the girl the more! I

      was his confidant; I know everything. He used to beg my forgiveness for

      Christina. What do you say to that? I seized him once and kissed him, I

      did! To find that and to find all the rest with it, and to believe it was

      a gift straight from the pitying angels of heaven, and then to see it

      dashed away before your eyes and to stand here helpless—oh, it ‘s a

      fate I hope you may ever be spared!”

     


      “It would seem, then, that in the interest of Prince Casamassima himself I

      ought to refuse to interfere,” said Rowland.

    


      Mrs. Light looked at him hard, slowly drying her eyes. The intensity of

      her grief and anger gave her a kind of majesty, and Rowland, for the

      moment, felt ashamed of the ironical ring of his observation. “Very good,

      sir,” she said. “I ‘m sorry your heart is not so tender as your

      conscience. My compliments to your conscience! It must give you great

      happiness. Heaven help me! Since you fail us, we are indeed driven to the

      wall. But I have fought my own battles before, and I have never lost

      courage, and I don’t see why I should break down now. Cavaliere, come

      here!”

     


      Giacosa rose at her summons and advanced with his usual deferential

      alacrity. He shook hands with Rowland in silence.

    


      “Mr. Mallet refuses to say a word,” Mrs. Light went on. “Time presses,

      every moment is precious. Heaven knows what that poor boy may be doing. If

      at this moment a clever woman should get hold of him she might be as ugly

      as she pleased! It ‘s horrible to think of it.”

     


      The Cavaliere fixed his eyes on Rowland, and his look, which the night

      before had been singular, was now most extraordinary. There was a nameless

      force of anguish in it which seemed to grapple with the young man’s

      reluctance, to plead, to entreat, and at the same time to be glazed over

      with a reflection of strange things.

    


      Suddenly, though most vaguely, Rowland felt the presence of a new element

      in the drama that was going on before him. He looked from the Cavaliere to

      Mrs. Light, whose eyes were now quite dry, and were fixed in stony

      hardness on the floor.

    


      “If you could bring yourself,” the Cavaliere said, in a low, soft,

      caressing voice, “to address a few words of solemn remonstrance to Miss

      Light, you would, perhaps, do more for us than you know. You would save

      several persons a great pain. The dear signora, first, and then Christina

      herself. Christina in particular. Me too, I might take the liberty to

      add!”

     


      There was, to Rowland, something acutely touching in this humble petition.

      He had always felt a sort of imaginative tenderness for poor little

      unexplained Giacosa, and these words seemed a supreme contortion of the

      mysterious obliquity of his life. All of a sudden, as he watched the

      Cavaliere, something occurred to him; it was something very odd, and it

      stayed his glance suddenly from again turning to Mrs. Light. His idea

      embarrassed him, and to carry off his embarrassment, he repeated that it

      was folly to suppose that his words would have any weight with Christina.

    


      The Cavaliere stepped forward and laid two fingers on Rowland’s breast.

      “Do you wish to know the truth? You are the only man whose words she

      remembers.”

     


      Rowland was going from surprise to surprise. “I will say what I can!” he

      said. By this time he had ventured to glance at Mrs. Light. She was

      looking at him askance, as if, upon this, she was suddenly mistrusting his

      motives.

    


      “If you fail,” she said sharply, “we have something else! But please to

      lose no time.”

     


      She had hardly spoken when the sound of a short, sharp growl caused the

      company to turn. Christina’s fleecy poodle stood in the middle of the vast

      saloon, with his muzzle lowered, in pompous defiance of the three

      conspirators against the comfort of his mistress. This young lady’s claims

      for him seemed justified; he was an animal of amazingly delicate

      instincts. He had preceded Christina as a sort of van-guard of defense,

      and she now slowly advanced from a neighboring room.

    


      “You will be so good as to listen to Mr. Mallet,” her mother said, in a

      terrible voice, “and to reflect carefully upon what he says. I suppose you

      will admit that he is disinterested. In half an hour you shall hear from

      me again!” And passing her hand through the Cavaliere’s arm, she swept

      rapidly out of the room.

    


      Christina looked hard at Rowland, but offered him no greeting. She was

      very pale, and, strangely enough, it at first seemed to Rowland that her

      beauty was in eclipse. But he very soon perceived that it had only changed

      its character, and that if it was a trifle less brilliant than usual, it

      was admirably touching and noble. The clouded light of her eyes, the

      magnificent gravity of her features, the conscious erectness of her head,

      might have belonged to a deposed sovereign or a condemned martyr. “Why

      have you come here at this time?” she asked.

    


      “Your mother sent for me in pressing terms, and I was very glad to have an

      opportunity to speak to you.”

     


      “Have you come to help me, or to persecute me?”

     


      “I have as little power to do one as I have desire to do the other. I came

      in great part to ask you a question. First, your decision is irrevocable?”

     


      Christina’s two hands had been hanging clasped in front of her; she

      separated them and flung them apart by an admirable gesture.

    


      “Would you have done this if you had not seen Miss Garland?”

     


      She looked at him with quickened attention; then suddenly, “This is

      interesting!” she cried. “Let us have it out.” And she flung herself into

      a chair and pointed to another.

    


      “You don’t answer my question,” Rowland said.

    


      “You have no right, that I know of, to ask it. But it ‘s a very clever

      one; so clever that it deserves an answer. Very likely I would not.”

     


      “Last night, when I said that to myself, I was extremely angry,” Rowland

      rejoined.

    


      “Oh, dear, and you are not angry now?”

     


      “I am less angry.”

     


      “How very stupid! But you can say something at least.”

     


      “If I were to say what is uppermost in my mind, I would say that, face to

      face with you, it is never possible to condemn you.”

     


      “Perche?”

     


      “You know, yourself! But I can at least say now what I felt last night. It

      seemed to me that you had consciously, cruelly dealt a blow at that poor

      girl. Do you understand?”

     


      “Wait a moment!” And with her eyes fixed on him, she inclined her head on

      one side, meditatively. Then a cold, brilliant smile covered her face, and

      she made a gesture of negation. “I see your train of reasoning, but it ‘s

      quite wrong. I meant no harm to Miss Garland; I should be extremely sorry

      to make her suffer. Tell me you believe that.”

     


      This was said with ineffable candor. Rowland heard himself answering, “I

      believe it!”

     


      “And yet, in a sense, your supposition was true,” Christina continued. “I

      conceived, as I told you, a great admiration for Miss Garland, and I

      frankly confess I was jealous of her. What I envied her was simply her

      character! I said to myself, ‘She, in my place, would n’t marry

      Casamassima.’ I could not help saying it, and I said it so often that I

      found a kind of inspiration in it. I hated the idea of being worse than

      she—of doing something that she would n’t do. I might be bad by

      nature, but I need n’t be by volition. The end of it all was that I found

      it impossible not to tell the prince that I was his very humble servant,

      but that I could not marry him.”

     


      “Are you sure it was only of Miss Garland’s character that you were

      jealous, not of—not of”—

    


      “Speak out, I beg you. We are talking philosophy!”

     


      “Not of her affection for her cousin?”

     


      “Sure is a good deal to ask. Still, I think I may say it! There are two

      reasons; one, at least, I can tell you: her affection has not a shadow’s

      weight with Mr. Hudson! Why then should one fear it?”

     


      “And what is the other reason?”

     


      “Excuse me; that is my own affair.”

     


      Rowland was puzzled, baffled, charmed, inspired, almost, all at once. “I

      have promised your mother,” he presently resumed, “to say something in

      favor of Prince Casamassima.”

     


      She shook her head sadly. “Prince Casamassima needs nothing that you can

      say for him. He is a magnificent parti. I know it perfectly.”

     


      “You know also of the extreme affliction of your mother?”

     


      “Her affliction is demonstrative. She has been abusing me for the last

      twenty-four hours as if I were the vilest of the vile.” To see Christina

      sit there in the purity of her beauty and say this, might have made one

      bow one’s head with a kind of awe. “I have failed of respect to her at

      other times, but I have not done so now. Since we are talking philosophy,”

       she pursued with a gentle smile, “I may say it ‘s a simple matter! I don’t

      love him. Or rather, perhaps, since we are talking philosophy, I may say

      it ‘s not a simple matter. I spoke just now of inspiration. The

      inspiration has been great, but—I frankly confess it—the

      choice has been hard. Shall I tell you?” she demanded, with sudden ardor;

      “will you understand me? It was on the one side the world, the splendid,

      beautiful, powerful, interesting world. I know what that is; I have tasted

      of the cup, I know its sweetness. Ah, if I chose, if I let myself go, if I

      flung everything to the winds, the world and I would be famous friends! I

      know its merits, and I think, without vanity, it would see mine. You would

      see some fine things! I should like to be a princess, and I think I should

      be a very good one; I would play my part well. I am fond of luxury, I am

      fond of a great society, I am fond of being looked at. I am corrupt,

      corruptible, corruption! Ah, what a pity that could n’t be, too! Mercy of

      Heaven!” There was a passionate tremor in her voice; she covered her face

      with her hands and sat motionless. Rowland saw that an intense agitation,

      hitherto successfully repressed, underlay her calmness, and he could

      easily believe that her battle had been fierce. She rose quickly and

      turned away, walked a few paces, and stopped. In a moment she was facing

      him again, with tears in her eyes and a flush in her cheeks. “But you need

      n’t think I ‘m afraid!” she said. “I have chosen, and I shall hold to it.

      I have something here, here, here!” and she patted her heart. “It ‘s my

      own. I shan’t part with it. Is it what you call an ideal? I don’t know; I

      don’t care! It is brighter than the Casamassima diamonds!”

     


      “You say that certain things are your own affair,” Rowland presently

      rejoined; “but I must nevertheless make an attempt to learn what all this

      means—what it promises for my friend Hudson. Is there any hope for

      him?”

     


      “This is a point I can’t discuss with you minutely. I like him very much.”

     


      “Would you marry him if he were to ask you?”

     


      “He has asked me.”

     


      “And if he asks again?”

     


      “I shall marry no one just now.”

     


      “Roderick,” said Rowland, “has great hopes.”

     


      “Does he know of my rupture with the prince?”

     


      “He is making a great holiday of it.”

     


      Christina pulled her poodle towards her and began to smo

 language to pass without correction, although Ben

immediately took it up, and sang, “She’s an old brick, old brick,

old brick!” to a cantering measure, which he beat out with his fist on

Mary’s arm.


But Mrs. Garth’s eyes were now drawn towards her husband, who was already

deep in the letter he was reading. His face had an expression of grave

surprise, which alarmed her a little, but he did not like to be questioned

while he was reading, and she remained anxiously watching till she saw him

suddenly shaken by a little joyous laugh as he turned back to the beginning of

the letter, and looking at her above his spectacles, said, in a low tone,

“What do you think, Susan?”


She went and stood behind him, putting her hand on his shoulder, while they

read the letter together. It was from Sir James Chettam, offering to Mr. Garth

the management of the family estates at Freshitt and elsewhere, and adding that

Sir James had been requested by Mr. Brooke of Tipton to ascertain whether Mr.

Garth would be disposed at the same time to resume the agency of the Tipton

property. The Baronet added in very obliging words that he himself was

particularly desirous of seeing the Freshitt and Tipton estates under the same

management, and he hoped to be able to show that the double agency might be

held on terms agreeable to Mr. Garth, whom he would be glad to see at the Hall

at twelve o’clock on the following day.


“He writes handsomely, doesn’t he, Susan?” said Caleb,

turning his eyes upward to his wife, who raised her hand from his shoulder to

his ear, while she rested her chin on his head. “Brooke didn’t like

to ask me himself, I can see,” he continued, laughing silently.


“Here is an honor to your father, children,” said Mrs. Garth,

looking round at the five pair of eyes, all fixed on the parents. “He is

asked to take a post again by those who dismissed him long ago. That shows that

he did his work well, so that they feel the want of him.”


“Like Cincinnatus—hooray!” said Ben, riding on his chair,

with a pleasant confidence that discipline was relaxed.


“Will they come to fetch him, mother?” said Letty, thinking of the

Mayor and Corporation in their robes.


Mrs. Garth patted Letty’s head and smiled, but seeing that her husband

was gathering up his letters and likely soon to be out of reach in that

sanctuary “business,” she pressed his shoulder and said

emphatically—


“Now, mind you ask fair pay, Caleb.”


“Oh yes,” said Caleb, in a deep voice of assent, as if it would be

unreasonable to suppose anything else of him. “It’ll come to

between four and five hundred, the two together.” Then with a little

start of remembrance he said, “Mary, write and give up that school. Stay

and help your mother. I’m as pleased as Punch, now I’ve thought of

that.”


No manner could have been less like that of Punch triumphant than

Caleb’s, but his talents did not lie in finding phrases, though he was

very particular about his letter-writing, and regarded his wife as a treasury

of correct language.


There was almost an uproar among the children now, and Mary held up the cambric

embroidery towards her mother entreatingly, that it might be put out of reach

while the boys dragged her into a dance. Mrs. Garth, in placid joy, began to

put the cups and plates together, while Caleb pushing his chair from the table,

as if he were going to move to the desk, still sat holding his letters in his

hand and looking on the ground meditatively, stretching out the fingers of his

left hand, according to a mute language of his own. At last he said—


“It’s a thousand pities Christy didn’t take to business,

Susan. I shall want help by-and-by. And Alfred must go off to the

engineering—I’ve made up my mind to that.” He fell into

meditation and finger-rhetoric again for a little while, and then continued:

“I shall make Brooke have new agreements with the tenants, and I shall

draw up a rotation of crops. And I’ll lay a wager we can get fine bricks

out of the clay at Bott’s corner. I must look into that: it would cheapen

the repairs. It’s a fine bit of work, Susan! A man without a family would

be glad to do it for nothing.”


“Mind you don’t, though,” said his wife, lifting up her

finger.


“No, no; but it’s a fine thing to come to a man when he’s

seen into the nature of business: to have the chance of getting a bit of the

country into good fettle, as they say, and putting men into the right way with

their farming, and getting a bit of good contriving and solid building

done—that those who are living and those who come after will be the

better for. I’d sooner have it than a fortune. I hold it the most

honorable work that is.” Here Caleb laid down his letters, thrust his

fingers between the buttons of his waistcoat, and sat upright, but presently

proceeded with some awe in his voice and moving his head slowly

aside—“It’s a great gift of God, Susan.”


“That it is, Caleb,” said his wife, with answering fervor.

“And it will be a blessing to your children to have had a father who did

such work: a father whose good work remains though his name may be

forgotten.” She could not say any more to him then about the pay.


In the evening, when Caleb, rather tired with his day’s work, was seated

in silence with his pocket-book open on his knee, while Mrs. Garth and Mary

were at their sewing, and Letty in a corner was whispering a dialogue with her

doll, Mr. Farebrother came up the orchard walk, dividing the bright August

lights and shadows with the tufted grass and the apple-tree boughs. We know

that he was fond of his parishioners the Garths, and had thought Mary worth

mentioning to Lydgate. He used to the full the clergyman’s privilege of

disregarding the Middlemarch discrimination of ranks, and always told his

mother that Mrs. Garth was more of a lady than any matron in the town. Still,

you see, he spent his evenings at the Vincys’, where the matron, though

less of a lady, presided over a well-lit drawing-room and whist. In those days

human intercourse was not determined solely by respect. But the Vicar did

heartily respect the Garths, and a visit from him was no surprise to that

family. Nevertheless he accounted for it even while he was shaking hands, by

saying, “I come as an envoy, Mrs. Garth: I have something to say to you

and Garth on behalf of Fred Vincy. The fact is, poor fellow,” he

continued, as he seated himself and looked round with his bright glance at the

three who were listening to him, “he has taken me into his

confidence.”


Mary’s heart beat rather quickly: she wondered how far Fred’s

confidence had gone.


“We haven’t seen the lad for months,” said Caleb. “I

couldn’t think what was become of him.”


“He has been away on a visit,” said the Vicar, “because home

was a little too hot for him, and Lydgate told his mother that the poor fellow

must not begin to study yet. But yesterday he came and poured himself out to

me. I am very glad he did, because I have seen him grow up from a youngster of

fourteen, and I am so much at home in the house that the children are like

nephews and nieces to me. But it is a difficult case to advise upon. However,

he has asked me to come and tell you that he is going away, and that he is so

miserable about his debt to you, and his inability to pay, that he can’t

bear to come himself even to bid you good by.”


“Tell him it doesn’t signify a farthing,” said Caleb, waving

his hand. “We’ve had the pinch and have got over it. And now

I’m going to be as rich as a Jew.”


“Which means,” said Mrs. Garth, smiling at the Vicar, “that

we are going to have enough to bring up the boys well and to keep Mary at

home.”


“What is the treasure-trove?” said Mr. Farebrother.


“I’m going to be agent for two estates, Freshitt and Tipton; and

perhaps for a pretty little bit of land in Lowick besides: it’s all the

same family connection, and employment spreads like water if it’s once

set going. It makes me very happy, Mr. Farebrother”—here Caleb

threw back his head a little, and spread his arms on the elbows of his

chair—“that I’ve got an opportunity again with the letting of

the land, and carrying out a notion or two with improvements. It’s a most

uncommonly cramping thing, as I’ve often told Susan, to sit on horseback

and look over the hedges at the wrong thing, and not be able to put your hand

to it to make it right. What people do who go into politics I can’t

think: it drives me almost mad to see mismanagement over only a few hundred

acres.”


It was seldom that Caleb volunteered so long a speech, but his happiness had

the effect of mountain air: his eyes were bright, and the words came without

effort.


“I congratulate you heartily, Garth,” said the Vicar. “This

is the best sort of news I could have had to carry to Fred Vincy, for he dwelt

a good deal on the injury he had done you in causing you to part with

money—robbing you of it, he said—which you wanted for other

purposes. I wish Fred were not such an idle dog; he has some very good points,

and his father is a little hard upon him.”


“Where is he going?” said Mrs. Garth, rather coldly.


“He means to try again for his degree, and he is going up to study before

term. I have advised him to do that. I don’t urge him to enter the

Church—on the contrary. But if he will go and work so as to pass, that

will be some guarantee that he has energy and a will; and he is quite at sea;

he doesn’t know what else to do. So far he will please his father, and I

have promised in the mean time to try and reconcile Vincy to his son’s

adopting some other line of life. Fred says frankly he is not fit for a

clergyman, and I would do anything I could to hinder a man from the fatal step

of choosing the wrong profession. He quoted to me what you said, Miss

Garth—do you remember it?” (Mr. Farebrother used to say

“Mary” instead of “Miss Garth,” but it was part of his

delicacy to treat her with the more deference because, according to Mrs.

Vincy’s phrase, she worked for her bread.)


Mary felt uncomfortable, but, determined to take the matter lightly, answered

at once, “I have said so many impertinent things to Fred—we are

such old playfellows.”


“You said, according to him, that he would be one of those ridiculous

clergymen who help to make the whole clergy ridiculous. Really, that was so

cutting that I felt a little cut myself.”


Caleb laughed. “She gets her tongue from you, Susan,” he said, with

some enjoyment.


“Not its flippancy, father,” said Mary, quickly, fearing that her

mother would be displeased. “It is rather too bad of Fred to repeat my

flippant speeches to Mr. Farebrother.”


“It was certainly a hasty speech, my dear,” said Mrs. Garth, with

whom speaking evil of dignities was a high misdemeanor. “We should not

value our Vicar the less because there was a ridiculous curate in the next

parish.”


“There’s something in what she says, though,” said Caleb, not

disposed to have Mary’s sharpness undervalued. “A bad workman of

any sort makes his fellows mistrusted. Things hang together,” he added,

looking on the floor and moving his feet uneasily with a sense that words were

scantier than thoughts.


“Clearly,” said the Vicar, amused. “By being contemptible we

set men’s minds to the tune of contempt. I certainly agree with Miss

Garth’s view of the matter, whether I am condemned by it or not. But as

to Fred Vincy, it is only fair he should be excused a little: old

Featherstone’s delusive behavior did help to spoil him. There was

something quite diabolical in not leaving him a farthing after all. But Fred

has the good taste not to dwell on that. And what he cares most about is having

offended you, Mrs. Garth; he supposes you will never think well of him

again.”


“I have been disappointed in Fred,” said Mrs. Garth, with decision.

“But I shall be ready to think well of him again when he gives me good

reason to do so.”


At this point Mary went out of the room, taking Letty with her.


“Oh, we must forgive young people when they’re sorry,” said

Caleb, watching Mary close the door. “And as you say, Mr. Farebrother,

there was the very devil in that old man. Now Mary’s gone out, I must

tell you a thing—it’s only known to Susan and me, and you’ll

not tell it again. The old scoundrel wanted Mary to burn one of the wills the

very night he died, when she was sitting up with him by herself, and he offered

her a sum of money that he had in the box by him if she would do it. But Mary,

you understand, could do no such thing—would not be handling his iron

chest, and so on. Now, you see, the will he wanted burnt was this last, so that

if Mary had done what he wanted, Fred Vincy would have had ten thousand pounds.

The old man did turn to him at the last. That touches poor Mary close; she

couldn’t help it—she was in the right to do what she did, but she

feels, as she says, much as if she had knocked down somebody’s property

and broken it against her will, when she was rightfully defending herself. I

feel with her, somehow, and if I could make any amends to the poor lad, instead

of bearing him a grudge for the harm he did us, I should be glad to do it. Now,

what is your opinion, sir? Susan doesn’t agree with me; she

says—tell what you say, Susan.”


“Mary could not have acted otherwise, even if she had known what would be

the effect on Fred,” said Mrs. Garth, pausing from her work, and looking

at Mr. Farebrother.


“And she was quite ignorant of it. It seems to me, a loss which falls on

another because we have done right is not to lie upon our conscience.”


The Vicar did not answer immediately, and Caleb said, “It’s the

feeling. The child feels in that way, and I feel with her. You don’t mean

your horse to tread on a dog when you’re backing out of the way; but it

goes through you, when it’s done.”


“I am sure Mrs. Garth would agree with you there,” said Mr.

Farebrother, who for some reason seemed more inclined to ruminate than to

speak. “One could hardly say that the feeling you mention about Fred is

wrong—or rather, mistaken—though no man ought to make a claim on

such feeling.”


“Well, well,” said Caleb, “it’s a secret. You will not

tell Fred.”


“Certainly not. But I shall carry the other good news—that you can

afford the loss he caused you.”


Mr. Farebrother left the house soon after, and seeing Mary in the orchard with

Letty, went to say good-by to her. They made a pretty picture in the western

light which brought out the brightness of the apples on the old scant-leaved

boughs—Mary in her lavender gingham and black ribbons holding a basket,

while Letty in her well-worn nankin picked up the fallen apples. If you want to

know more particularly how Mary looked, ten to one you will see a face like

hers in the crowded street to-morrow, if you are there on the watch: she will

not be among those daughters of Zion who are haughty, and walk with

stretched-out necks and wanton eyes, mincing as they go: let all those pass,

and fix your eyes on some small plump brownish person of firm but quiet

carriage, who looks about her, but does not suppose that anybody is looking at

her. If she has a broad face and square brow, well-marked eyebrows and curly

dark hair, a certain expression of amusement in her glance which her mouth

keeps the secret of, and for the rest features entirely

insignificant—take that ordinary but not disagreeable person for a

portrait of Mary Garth. If you made her smile, she would show you perfect

little teeth; if you made her angry, she would not raise her voice, but would

probably say one of the bitterest things you have ever tasted the flavor of; if

you did her a kindness, she would never forget it. Mary admired the keen-faced

handsome little Vicar in his well-brushed threadbare clothes more than any man

she had had the opportunity of knowing. She had never heard him say a foolish

thing, though she knew that he did unwise ones; and perhaps foolish sayings

were more objectionable to her than any of Mr. Farebrother’s unwise

doings. At least, it was remarkable that the actual imperfections of the

Vicar’s clerical character never seemed to call forth the same scorn and

dislike which she showed beforehand for the predicted imperfections of the

clerical character sustained by Fred Vincy. These irregularities of judgment, I

imagine, are found even in riper minds than Mary Garth’s: our

impartiality is kept for abstract merit and demerit, which none of us ever saw.

Will any one guess towards which of those widely different men Mary had the

peculiar woman’s tenderness?—the one she was most inclined to be

severe on, or the contrary?


“Have you any message for your old playfellow, Miss Garth?” said

the Vicar, as he took a fragrant apple from the basket which she held towards

him, and put it in his pocket. “Something to soften down that harsh

judgment? I am going straight to see him.”


“No,” said Mary, shaking her head, and smiling. “If I were to

say that he would not be ridiculous as a clergyman, I must say that he would be

something worse than ridiculous. But I am very glad to hear that he is going

away to work.”


“On the other hand, I am very glad to hear that you are not going

away to work. My mother, I am sure, will be all the happier if you will come to

see her at the vicarage: you know she is fond of having young people to talk

to, and she has a great deal to tell about old times. You will really be doing

a kindness.”


“I should like it very much, if I may,” said Mary.

“Everything seems too happy for me all at once. I thought it would always

be part of my life to long for home, and losing that grievance makes me feel

rather empty: I suppose it served instead of sense to fill up my mind?”


“May I go with you, Mary?” whispered Letty—a most

inconvenient child, who listened to everything. But she was made exultant by

having her chin pinched and her cheek kissed by Mr. Farebrother—an

incident which she narrated to her mother and father.


As the Vicar walked to Lowick, any one watching him closely might have seen him

twice shrug his shoulders. I think that the rare Englishmen who have this

gesture are never of the heavy type—for fear of any lumbering instance to

the contrary, I will say, hardly ever; they have usually a fine temperament and

much tolerance towards the smaller errors of men (themselves inclusive). The

Vicar was holding an inward dialogue in which he told himself that there was

probably something more between Fred and Mary Garth than the regard of old

playfellows, and replied with a question whether that bit of womanhood were not

a great deal too choice for that crude young gentleman. The rejoinder to this

was the first shrug. Then he laughed at himself for being likely to have felt

jealous, as if he had been a man able to marry, which, added he, it is as clear

as any balance-sheet that I am not. Whereupon followed the second shrug.


What could two men, so different from each other, see in this “brown

patch,” as Mary called herself? It was certainly not her plainness that

attracted them (and let all plain young ladies be warned against the dangerous

encouragement given them by Society to confide in their want of beauty). A

human being in this aged nation of

ou, there is nothing

      so good for them as not to say a word—just to look at them and

      think. Miss Minchin turns pale with rage when I do it. Miss Amelia looks

      frightened, so do the girls. They know you are stronger than they are,

      because you are strong enough to hold in your rage and they are not, and

      they say stupid things they wish they hadn't said afterward. There's

      nothing so strong as rage, except what makes you hold it in—that's

      stronger. It's a good thing not to answer your enemies. I scarcely ever

      do. Perhaps Emily is more like me than I am like myself. Perhaps she would

      rather not answer her friends, even. She keeps it all in her heart.”

     


      But though she tried to satisfy herself with these arguments, Sara did not

      find it easy. When, after a long, hard day, in which she had been sent

      here and there, sometimes on long errands, through wind and cold and rain;

      and, when she came in wet and hungry, had been sent out again because

      nobody chose to remember that she was only a child, and that her thin

      little legs might be tired, and her small body, clad in its forlorn, too

      small finery, all too short and too tight, might be chilled; when she had

      been given only harsh words and cold, slighting looks for thanks, when the

      cook had been vulgar and insolent; when Miss Minchin had been in her worst

      moods, and when she had seen the girls sneering at her among themselves

      and making fun of her poor, outgrown clothes—then Sara did not find

      Emily quite all that her sore, proud, desolate little heart needed as the

      doll sat in her little old chair and stared.

    


      One of these nights, when she came up to the garret cold, hungry, tired,

      and with a tempest raging in her small breast, Emily's stare seemed so

      vacant, her sawdust legs and arms so limp and inexpressive, that Sara lost

      all control over herself.

    


      “I shall die presently!” she said at first.

    


      Emily stared.

    


      “I can't bear this!” said the poor child, trembling. “I know I shall die.

      I'm cold, I'm wet, I'm starving to death. I've walked a thousand miles

      to-day, and they have done nothing but scold me from morning until night.

      And because I could not find that last thing they sent me for, they would

      not give me any supper. Some men laughed at me because my old shoes made

      me slip down in the mud. I'm covered with mud now. And they laughed! Do

      you hear!”

     


      She looked at the staring glass eyes and complacent wax face, and suddenly

      a sort of heartbroken rage seized her. She lifted her little savage hand

      and knocked Emily off the chair, bursting into a passion of sobbing.

    


      “You are nothing but a doll!” she cried.

    


      “Nothing but a doll-doll-doll! You care for nothing. You are stuffed with

      sawdust. You never had a heart. Nothing could ever make you feel. You are

      a doll!”

     


      Emily lay upon the floor, with her legs ignominiously doubled up over her

      head, and a new flat place on the end of her nose; but she was still calm,

      even dignified.

    


      Sara hid her face on her arms and sobbed. Some rats in the wall began to

      fight and bite each other, and squeak and scramble. But, as I have already

      intimated, Sara was not in the habit of crying. After a while she stopped,

      and when she stopped she looked at Emily, who seemed to be gazing at her

      around the side of one ankle, and actually with a kind of glassy-eyed

      sympathy. Sara bent and picked her up. Remorse overtook her.

    


      “You can't help being a doll,” she said, with a resigned sigh, “any more

      than those girls downstairs can help not having any sense. We are not all

      alike. Perhaps you do your sawdust best.”

     


      None of Miss Minchin's young ladies were very remarkable for being

      brilliant; they were select, but some of them were very dull, and some of

      them were fond of applying themselves to their lessons. Sara, who snatched

      her lessons at all sorts of untimely hours from tattered and discarded

      books, and who had a hungry craving for everything readable, was often

      severe upon them in her small mind. They had books they never read; she

      had no books at all. If she had always had something to read, she would

      not have been so lonely. She liked romances and history and poetry; she

      would read anything. There was a sentimental housemaid in the

      establishment who bought the weekly penny papers, and subscribed to a

      circulating library, from which she got greasy volumes containing stories

      of marquises and dukes who invariably fell in love with orange-girls and

      gypsies and servant-maids, and made them the proud brides of coronets; and

      Sara often did parts of this maid's work so that she might earn the

      privilege of reading these romantic histories. There was also a fat, dull

      pupil, whose name was Ermengarde St. John, who was one of her resources.

      Ermengarde had an intellectual father, who, in his despairing desire to

      encourage his daughter, constantly sent her valuable and interesting

      books, which were a continual source of grief to her. Sara had once

      actually found her crying over a big package of them.

    


      “What is the matter with you?” she asked her, perhaps rather disdainfully.

    


      And it is just possible she would not have spoken to her, if she had not

      seen the books. The sight of books always gave Sara a hungry feeling, and

      she could not help drawing near to them if only to read their titles.

    


      “What is the matter with you?” she asked.

    


      “My papa has sent me some more books,” answered Ermengarde woefully, “and

      he expects me to read them.”

     


      “Don't you like reading?” said Sara.

    


      “I hate it!” replied Miss Ermengarde St. John. “And he will ask me

      questions when he sees me: he will want to know how much I remember; how

      would you like to have to read all those?”

     


      “I'd like it better than anything else in the world,” said Sara.

    


      Ermengarde wiped her eyes to look at such a prodigy.

    


      “Oh, gracious!” she exclaimed.

    


      Sara returned the look with interest. A sudden plan formed itself in her

      sharp mind.

    


      “Look here!” she said. “If you'll lend me those books, I'll read them and

      tell you everything that's in them afterward, and I'll tell it to you so

      that you will remember it. I know I can. The A B C children always

      remember what I tell them.”

     


      “Oh, goodness!” said Ermengarde. “Do you think you could?”

     


      “I know I could,” answered Sara. “I like to read, and I always remember.

      I'll take care of the books, too; they will look just as new as they do

      now, when I give them back to you.”

     


      Ermengarde put her handkerchief in her pocket.

    


      “If you'll do that,” she said, “and if you'll make me remember, I'll give

      you—I'll give you some money.”

     


      “I don't want your money,” said Sara. “I want your books—I want

      them.” And her eyes grew big and queer, and her chest heaved once.

    


      “Take them, then,” said Ermengarde; “I wish I wanted them, but I am not

      clever, and my father is, and he thinks I ought to be.”

     


      Sara picked up the books and marched off with them. But when she was at

      the door, she stopped and turned around.

    


      “What are you going to tell your father?” she asked.

    


      “Oh,” said Ermengarde, “he needn't know; he'll think I've read them.”

     


      Sara looked down at the books; her heart really began to beat fast.

    


      “I won't do it,” she said rather slowly, “if you are going to tell him

      lies about it—I don't like lies. Why can't you tell him I read them

      and then told you about them?”

     


      “But he wants me to read them,” said Ermengarde.

    


      “He wants you to know what is in them,” said Sara; “and if I can tell it

      to you in an easy way and make you remember, I should think he would like

      that.”

     


      “He would like it better if I read them myself,” replied Ermengarde.

    


      “He will like it, I dare say, if you learn anything in any way,” said

      Sara. “I should, if I were your father.”

     


      And though this was not a flattering way of stating the case, Ermengarde

      was obliged to admit it was true, and, after a little more argument, gave

      in. And so she used afterward always to hand over her books to Sara, and

      Sara would carry them to her garret and devour them; and after she had

      read each volume, she would return it and tell Ermengarde about it in a

      way of her own. She had a gift for making things interesting. Her

      imagination helped her to make everything rather like a story, and she

      managed this matter so well that Miss St. John gained more information

      from her books than she would have gained if she had read them three times

      over by her poor stupid little self. When Sara sat down by her and began

      to tell some story of travel or history, she made the travellers and

      historical people seem real; and Ermengarde used to sit and regard her

      dramatic gesticulations, her thin little flushed cheeks, and her shining,

      odd eyes with amazement.

    


      “It sounds nicer than it seems in the book,” she would say. “I never cared

      about Mary, Queen of Scots, before, and I always hated the French

      Revolution, but you make it seem like a story.”

     


      “It is a story,” Sara would answer. “They are all stories. Everything is a

      story—everything in this world. You are a story—I am a story—Miss

      Minchin is a story. You can make a story out of anything.”

     


      “I can't,” said Ermengarde.

    


      Sara stared at her a minute reflectively.

    


      “No,” she said at last. “I suppose you couldn't. You are a little like

      Emily.”

     


      “Who is Emily?”

     


      Sara recollected herself. She knew she was sometimes rather impolite in

      the candor of her remarks, and she did not want to be impolite to a girl

      who was not unkind—only stupid. Notwithstanding all her sharp little

      ways she had the sense to wish to be just to everybody. In the hours she

      spent alone, she used to argue out a great many curious questions with

      herself. One thing she had decided upon was, that a person who was clever

      ought to be clever enough not to be unjust or deliberately unkind to any

      one. Miss Minchin was unjust and cruel, Miss Amelia was unkind and

      spiteful, the cook was malicious and hasty-tempered—they all were

      stupid, and made her despise them, and she desired to be as unlike them as

      possible. So she would be as polite as she could to people who in the

      least deserved politeness.

    


      “Emily is—a person—I know,” she replied.

    


      “Do you like her?” asked Ermengarde.

    


      “Yes, I do,” said Sara.

    


      Ermengarde examined her queer little face and figure again. She did look

      odd. She had on, that day, a faded blue plush skirt, which barely covered

      her knees, a brown Cloth sacque, and a pair of olive-green stockings which

      Miss Minchin had made her piece out with black ones, so that they would be

      long enough to be kept on. And yet Ermengarde was beginning slowly to

      admire her. Such a forlorn, thin, neglected little thing as that, who

      could read and read and remember and tell you things so that they did not

      tire you all out! A child who could speak French, and who had learned

      German, no one knew how! One could not help staring at her and feeling

      interested, particularly one to whom the simplest lesson was a trouble and

      a woe.

    


      “Do you like me?” said Ermengarde, finally, at the end of her scrutiny.

    


      Sara hesitated one second, then she answered:

    


      “I like you because you are not ill-natured—I like you for letting

      me read your books—I like you because you don't make spiteful fun of

      me for what I can't help. It's not your fault that—”

     


      She pulled herself up quickly. She had been going to say, “that you are

      stupid.”

     


      “That what?” asked Ermengarde.

    


      “That you can't learn things quickly. If you can't, you can't. If I can,

      why, I can—that's all.” She paused a minute, looking at the plump

      face before her, and then, rather slowly, one of her wise, old-fashioned

      thoughts came to her.

    


      “Perhaps,” she said, “to be able to learn things quickly isn't everything.

      To be kind is worth a good deal to other people. If Miss Minchin knew

      everything on earth, which she doesn't, and if she was like what she is

      now, she'd still be a detestable thing, and everybody would hate her. Lots

      of clever people have done harm and been wicked. Look at Robespierre—”

     


      She stopped again and examined her companion's countenance.

    


      “Do you remember about him?” she demanded. “I believe you've forgotten.”

     


      “Well, I don't remember all of it,” admitted Ermengarde.

    


      “Well,” said Sara, with courage and determination, “I'll tell it to you

      over again.”

     


      And she plunged once more into the gory records of the French Revolution,

      and told such stories of it, and made such vivid pictures of its horrors,

      that Miss St. John was afraid to go to bed afterward, and hid her head

      under the blankets when she did go, and shivered until she fell asleep.

      But afterward she preserved lively recollections of the character of

      Robespierre, and did not even forget Marie Antoinette and the Princess de

      Lamballe.

    


      “You know they put her head on a pike and danced around it,” Sara had

      said; “and she had beautiful blonde hair; and when I think of her, I never

      see her head on her body, but always on a pike, with those furious people

      dancing and howling.”

     


      Yes, it was true; to this imaginative child everything was a story; and

      the more books she read, the more imaginative she became. One of her chief

      entertainments was to sit in her garret, or walk about it, and “suppose”

       things. On a cold night, when she had not had enough to eat, she would

      draw the red footstool up before the empty grate, and say in the most

      intense voice:

    


      “Suppose there was a grate, wide steel grate here, and a great glowing

      fire—a glowing fire—with beds of red-hot coal and lots of

      little dancing, flickering flames. Suppose there was a soft, deep rug, and

      this was a comfortable chair, all cushions and crimson velvet; and suppose

      I had a crimson velvet frock on, and a deep lace collar, like a child in a

      picture; and suppose all the rest of the room was furnished in lovely

      colors, and there were book-shelves full of books, which changed by magic

      as soon as you had read them; and suppose there was a little table here,

      with a snow-white cover on it, and little silver dishes, and in one there

      was hot, hot soup, and in another a roast chicken, and in another some

      raspberry-jam tarts with crisscross on them, and in another some grapes;

      and suppose Emily could speak, and we could sit and eat our supper, and

      then talk and read; and then suppose there was a soft, warm bed in the

      corner, and when we were tired we could go to sleep, and sleep as long as

      we liked.”

     


      Sometimes, after she had supposed things like these for half an hour, she

      would feel almost warm, and would creep into bed with Emily and fall

      asleep with a smile on her face.

    


      “What large, downy pillows!” she would whisper. “What white sheets and

      fleecy blankets!” And she almost forgot that her real pillows had scarcely

      any feathers in them at all, and smelled musty, and that her blankets and

      coverlid were thin and full of holes.

    


      At another time she would “suppose” she was a princess, and then she would

      go about the house with an expression on her face which was a source of

      great secret annoyance to Miss Minchin, because it seemed as if the child

      scarcely heard the spiteful, insulting things said to her, or, if she

      heard them, did not care for them at all. Sometimes, while she was in the

      midst of some harsh and cruel speech, Miss Minchin would find the odd,

      unchildish eyes fixed upon her with something like a proud smile in them.

      At such times she did not know that Sara was saying to herself:

    


      “You don't know that you are saying these things to a princess, and that

      if I chose I could wave my hand and order you to execution. I only spare

      you because I am a princess, and you are a poor, stupid, old, vulgar

      thing, and don't know any better.”

     


      This used to please and amuse her more than anything else; and queer and

      fanciful as it was, she found comfort in it, and it was not a bad thing

      for her. It really kept her from being made rude and malicious by the

      rudeness and malice of those about her.

    


      “A princess must be polite,” she said to herself. And so when the

      servants, who took their tone from their mistress, were insolent and

      ordered her about, she would hold her head erect, and reply to them

      sometimes in a way which made them stare at her, it was so quaintly civil.

    


      “I am a princess in rags and tatters,” she would think, “but I am a

      princess, inside. It would be easy to be a princess if I were dressed in

      cloth-of-gold; it is a great deal more of a triumph to be one all the time

      when no one knows it. There was Marie Antoinette; when she was in prison,

      and her throne was gone, and she had only a black gown on, and her hair

      was white, and they insulted her and called her the Widow Capet,—she

      was a great deal more like a queen then than when she was so gay and had

      everything grand. I like her best then. Those howling mobs of people did

      not frighten her. She was stronger than they were even when they cut her

      head off.”

     


      Once when such thoughts were passing through her mind the look in her eyes

      so enraged Miss Minchin that she flew at Sara and boxed her ears.

    


      Sara awakened from her dream, started a little, and then broke into a

      laugh.

    


      “What are you laughing at, you bold, impudent child!” ex

voices of flowers,

singing their thanks to the gentle Fairy, and the summer wind

was laden with perfumes, which they sent as tokens of their gratitude;

and wherever she went, old trees bent down to fold their slender

branches round her, flowers laid their soft faces against her own,

and whispered blessings; even the humble moss bent over the little

feet, and kissed them as they passed.


The old King, surrounded by the happy Fairies, sat in Violet’s

lovely home, and watched his icy castle melt away beneath the bright

sunlight; while his Spirits, cold and gloomy no longer, danced

with the Elves, and waited on their King with loving eagerness.

Brighter grew the golden light, gayer sang the birds, and the

harmonious voices of grateful flowers, sounding over the earth,

carried new joy to all their gentle kindred.


Brighter shone the golden shadows;
On the cool wind softly came

The low, sweet tones of happy flowers,
Singing little Violet’s name.

’Mong the green trees was it whispered,
And the bright waves bore it on

To the lonely forest flowers,
Where the glad news had not gone.


Thus the Frost-King lost his kingdom,
And his power to harm and blight.

Violet conquered, and his cold heart
Warmed with music, love, and light;

And his fair home, once so dreary,
Gay with lovely Elves and flowers,

Brought a joy that never faded
Through the long bright summer hours.


Thus, by Violet’s magic power,
All dark shadows passed away,

And o’er the home of happy flowers
The golden light for ever lay.

Thus the Fairy mission ended,
And all Flower-Land was taught

The “Power of Love,” by gentle deeds
That little Violet wrought.


As Sunny Lock ceased, another little Elf came forward; and this was

the tale “Silver Wing” told.


EVA’S VISIT TO FAIRY-LAND.


Down among the grass and fragrant clover lay little Eva by the

brook-side, watching the bright waves, as they went singing by under

the drooping flowers that grew on its banks. As she was wondering

where the waters went, she heard a faint, low sound, as of far-off

music. She thought it was the wind, but not a leaf was stirring,

and soon through the rippling water came a strange little boat.


It was a lily of the valley, whose tall stem formed the mast,

while the broad leaves that rose from the roots, and drooped again

till they reached the water, were filled with gay little Elves,

who danced to the music of the silver lily-bells above, that rang

a merry peal, and filled the air with their fragrant breath.


On came the fairy boat, till it reached a moss-grown rock; and here

it stopped, while the Fairies rested beneath the violet-leaves,

and sang with the dancing waves.


Eva looked with wonder on their gay faces and bright garments, and

in the joy of her heart sang too, and threw crimson fruit for the

little folks to feast upon.


They looked kindly on the child, and, after whispering long among

themselves, two little bright-eyed Elves flew over the shining water,

and, lighting on the clover-blossoms, said gently, “Little maiden,

many thanks for your kindness; and our Queen bids us ask if you will

go with us to Fairy-Land, and learn what we can teach you.”


“Gladly would I go with you, dear Fairies,” said Eva, “but I cannot

sail in your little boat. See! I can hold you in my hand, and could

not live among you without harming your tiny kingdom, I am so large.”


Then the Elves laughed gayly, as they folded their arms about her,

saying, “You are a good child, dear Eva, to fear doing harm to those

weaker than yourself. You cannot hurt us now. Look in the water

and see what we have done.”


Eva looked into the brook, and saw a tiny child standing between

the Elves. “Now I can go with you,” said she, “but see, I can

no longer step from the bank to yonder stone, for the brook seems now

like a great river, and you have not given me wings like yours.”


But the Fairies took each a hand, and flew lightly over the stream.

The Queen and her subjects came to meet her, and all seemed glad to

say some kindly word of welcome to the little stranger. They placed

a flower-crown upon her head, laid their soft faces against her own,

and soon it seemed as if the gentle Elves had always been her friends.


“Now must we go home,” said the Queen, “and you shall go with us,

little one.”


Then there was a great bustle, as they flew about on shining wings,

some laying cushions of violet leaves in the boat, others folding the

Queen’s veil and mantle more closely round her, lest the falling dews

should chill her.


The cool waves’ gentle plashing against the boat, and the sweet chime

of the lily-bells, lulled little Eva to sleep, and when she woke

it was in Fairy-Land. A faint, rosy light, as of the setting sun,

shone on the white pillars of the Queen’s palace as they passed in,

and the sleeping flowers leaned gracefully on their stems, dreaming

beneath their soft green curtains. All was cool and still, and the

Elves glided silently about, lest they should break their slumbers.

They led Eva to a bed of pure white leaves, above which drooped

the fragrant petals of a crimson rose.


“You can look at the bright colors till the light fades, and then

the rose will sing you to sleep,” said the Elves, as they folded the

soft leaves about her, gently kissed her, and stole away.


Long she lay watching the bright shadows, and listening to the song

of the rose, while through the long night dreams of lovely things

floated like bright clouds through her mind; while the rose bent

lovingly above her, and sang in the clear moonlight.


With the sun rose the Fairies, and, with Eva, hastened away to

the fountain, whose cool waters were soon filled with little forms,

and the air ringing with happy voices, as the Elves floated in the

blue waves among the fair white lilies, or sat on the green moss,

smoothing their bright locks, and wearing fresh garlands of dewy

flowers. At length the Queen came forth, and her subjects gathered

round her, and while the flowers bowed their heads, and the trees

hushed their rustling, the Fairies sang their morning hymn to

the Father of birds and blossoms, who had made the earth so fair a

home for them.


Then they flew away to the gardens, and soon, high up among the

tree-tops, or under the broad leaves, sat the Elves in little groups,

taking their breakfast of fruit and pure fresh dew; while the

bright-winged birds came fearlessly among them, pecking the same

ripe berries, and dipping their little beaks in the same flower-cups,

and the Fairies folded their arms lovingly about them, smoothed their

soft bosoms, and gayly sang to them.


“Now, little Eva,” said they, “you will see that Fairies are not

idle, wilful Spirits, as mortals believe. Come, we will show you

what we do.”


They led her to a lovely room, through whose walls of deep green

leaves the light stole softly in. Here lay many wounded insects,

and harmless little creatures, whom cruel hands had hurt; and pale,

drooping flowers grew beside urns of healing herbs, from whose fresh

leaves came a faint, sweet perfume.


Eva wondered, but silently followed her guide, little Rose-Leaf,

who with tender words passed among the delicate blossoms,

pouring dew on their feeble roots, cheering them with her loving words

and happy smile.


Then she went to the insects; first to a little fly who lay in a

flower-leaf cradle.


“Do you suffer much, dear Gauzy-Wing?” asked the Fairy. “I will

bind up your poor little leg, and Zephyr shall rock you to sleep.”

So she folded the cool leaves tenderly about the poor fly, bathed his

wings, and brought him refreshing drink, while he hummed his thanks,

and forgot his pain, as Zephyr softly sung and fanned him with her

waving wings.


They passed on, and Eva saw beside each bed a Fairy, who with gentle

hands and loving words soothed the suffering insects. At length

they stopped beside a bee, who lay among sweet honeysuckle flowers,

in a cool, still place, where the summer wind blew in, and the green

leaves rustled pleasantly. Yet he seemed to find no rest, and

murmured of the pain he was doomed to bear. “Why must I lie here,

while my kindred are out in the pleasant fields, enjoying the sunlight

and the fresh air, and cruel hands have doomed me to this dark place

and bitter pain when I have done no wrong? Uncared for and forgotten,

I must stay here among these poor things who think only of themselves.

Come here, Rose-Leaf, and bind up my wounds, for I am far more useful

than idle bird or fly.”


Then said the Fairy, while she bathed the broken wing,—


“Love-Blossom, you should not murmur. We may find happiness in

seeking to be patient even while we suffer. You are not forgotten or

uncared for, but others need our care more than you, and to those

who take cheerfully the pain and sorrow sent, do we most gladly give

our help. You need not be idle, even though lying here in darkness

and sorrow; you can be taking from your heart all sad and discontented

feelings, and if love and patience blossom there, you will be better

for the lonely hours spent here. Look on the bed beside you; this

little dove has suffered far greater pain than you, and all our care

can never ease it; yet through the long days he hath lain here, not an

unkind word or a repining sigh hath he uttered. Ah, Love-Blossom,

the gentle bird can teach a lesson you will be wiser and better for.”


Then a faint voice whispered, “Little Rose-Leaf, come quickly, or

I cannot thank you as I ought for all your loving care of me.”


So they passed to the bed beside the discontented bee, and here upon

the softest down lay the dove, whose gentle eyes looked gratefully

upon the Fairy, as she knelt beside the little couch, smoothed the

soft white bosom, folded her arms about it and wept sorrowing tears,

while the bird still whispered its gratitude and love.


“Dear Fairy, the fairest flowers have cheered me with their sweet

breath, fresh dew and fragrant leaves have been ever ready for me,

gentle hands to tend, kindly hearts to love; and for this I can only

thank you and say farewell.”


Then the quivering wings were still, and the patient little dove

was dead; but the bee murmured no longer, and the dew from the flowers

fell like tears around the quiet bed.


Sadly Rose-Leaf led Eva away, saying, “Lily-Bosom shall have a grave

tonight beneath our fairest blossoms, and you shall see that

gentleness and love are prized far above gold or beauty, here in

Fairy-Land. Come now to the Flower Palace, and see the Fairy Court.”


Beneath green arches, bright with birds and flowers, beside singing

waves, went Eva into a lofty hall. The roof of pure white lilies

rested on pillars of green clustering vines, while many-colored

blossoms threw their bright shadows on the walls, as they danced below

in the deep green moss, and their low, sweet voices sounded softly

through the sunlit palace, while the rustling leaves kept time.


Beside the throne stood Eva, and watched the lovely forms around her,

as they stood, each little band in its own color, with glistening

wings, and flower wands.


Suddenly the music grew louder and sweeter, and the Fairies knelt,

and bowed their heads, as on through the crowd of loving subjects

came the Queen, while the air was filled with gay voices singing

to welcome her.


She placed the child beside her, saying, “Little Eva, you shall see

now how the flowers on your great earth bloom so brightly. A band

of loving little gardeners go daily forth from Fairy-Land, to tend

and watch them, that no harm may befall the gentle spirits that dwell

beneath their leaves. This is never known, for like all good it is

unseen by mortal eyes, and unto only pure hearts like yours do we

make known our secret. The humblest flower that grows is visited by

our messengers, and often blooms in fragrant beauty unknown, unloved

by all save Fairy friends, who seek to fill the spirits with all sweet

and gentle virtues, that they may not be useless on the earth; for the

noblest mortals stoop to learn of flowers. Now, Eglantine, what have

you to tell us of your rosy namesakes on the earth?”


From a group of Elves, whose rose-wreathed wands showed the flower

they loved, came one bearing a tiny urn, and, answering the Queen,

she said,—


“Over hill and valley they are blooming fresh and fair as summer sun

and dew can make them. No drooping stem or withered leaf tells of any

evil thought within their fragrant bosoms, and thus from the fairest

of their race have they gathered this sweet dew, as a token of their

gratitude to one whose tenderness and care have kept them pure and

happy; and this, the loveliest of their sisters, have I brought to

place among the Fairy flowers that never pass away.”


Eglantine laid the urn before the Queen, and placed the fragrant rose

on the dewy moss beside the throne, while a murmur of approval went

through the hall, as each elfin wand waved to the little Fairy

who had toiled so well and faithfully, and could bring so fair a gift

to their good Queen.


Then came forth an Elf bearing a withered leaf, while her many-colored

robe and the purple tulips in her hair told her name and charge.


“Dear Queen,” she sadly said, “I would gladly bring as pleasant

tidings as my sister, but, alas! my flowers are proud and wilful,

and when I went to gather my little gift of colored leaves for royal

garments, they bade me bring this withered blossom, and tell you

they would serve no longer one who will not make them Queen over all

the other flowers. They would yield neither dew nor honey, but

proudly closed their leaves and bid me go.”


“Your task has been too hard for you,” said the Queen kindly, as she

placed the drooping flower in the urn Eglantine had given, “you will

see how this dew from a sweet, pure heart will give new life and

loveliness even to this poor faded one. So can you, dear Rainbow, by

loving words and gentle teachings, bring back lost purity and peace

to those whom pride and selfishness have blighted. Go once again

to the proud flowers, and tell them when they are queen of their own

hearts they will ask no fairer kingdom. Watch more tenderly than ever

over them, see that they lack neither dew nor air, speak lovingly

to them, and let no unkind word or deed of theirs anger you. Let them

see by your patient love and care how much fairer they might be,

and when next you come, you will be laden with gifts from humble,

loving flowers.”


Thus they told what they had done, and received from their Queen some

gentle chiding or loving word of praise.


“You will be weary of this,” said little Rose-Leaf to Eva; “come now

and see where we are taught to read the tales written on flower-leaves,

and the sweet language of the birds, and all that can make a Fairy

heart wiser and better.”


Then into a cheerful place they went, where were many groups of

flowers, among whose leaves sat the child Elves, and learned from

their flower-books all that Fairy hands had written there. Some

studied how to watch the tender buds, when to spread them to the

sunlight, and when to shelter them from rain; how to guard the

ripening seeds, and when to lay them in the warm earth or send them

on the summer wind to far off hills and valleys, where other Fairy

hands would tend and cherish them, till a sisterhood of happy flowers

sprang up to beautify and gladden the lonely spot where they had

fallen. Others learned to heal the wounded insects, whose frail limbs

a breeze could shatter, and who, were it not for Fairy hands, would

die ere half their happy summer life had gone. Some learned how by

pleasant dreams to cheer and comfort mortal hearts, by whispered words

of love to save from evil deeds those who had gone astray, to fill

young hearts with gentle thoughts and pure affections, that no sin

might mar the beauty of the human flower; while others, like mortal

children, learned the Fairy alphabet. Thus the Elves made loving

friends by care and love, and no evil thing could harm them, for

those they helped to cherish and protect ever watched to shield and

save them.


Eva nodded to the gay little ones, as they peeped from among the

leaves at the stranger, and then she listened to the Fairy lessons.

Several tiny Elves stood on a broad leaf while the teacher sat

among the petals of a flower that bent beside them, and asked

questions that none but Fairies would care to know.


“Twinkle, if there lay nine seeds within a flower-cup and the wind

bore five away, how many would the blossom have?” “Four,” replied the

little one.


“Rosebud, if a Cowslip opens three leaves in one day and four the

next, how many rosy leaves will there be when the whole flower

has bloomed?”


“Seven,” sang the gay little Elf.


“Harebell, if a silkworm spin one yard of Fairy cloth in an hour,

how many will it spin in a day?”


“Twelve,” said the Fairy child.


“Primrose, where lies Violet Island?”


“In the Lake of Ripples.”


“Lilla, you may bound Rose Land.”


“On the north by Ferndale, south by Sunny Wave River, east by the hill

of Morning Clouds, and west by the Evening Star.”


“Now, little ones,” said the teacher, “you may go to your painting,

that our visitor may see how we repair the flowers that earthly hands

have injured.”


Then Eva saw how, on large, white leaves, the Fairies learned to

imitate the lovely colors, and with tiny brushes to brighten the blush

on the anemone’s cheek, to deepen the blue of the violet’s eye, and

add new light to the golden cowslip.


“You have stayed long enough,” said the Elves at length, “we have

many things to show you. Come now and see what is our dearest work.”


So Eva said farewell to the child Elves, and hastened with little

Rose-Leaf to the gates. Here she saw many bands of Fairies, folded in

dark mantles that mortals might not know them, who, with the child

among them, flew away over hill and valley. Some went to the cottages

amid the hills, some to the sea-side to watch above the humble fisher

folks; but little Rose-Leaf and many others went into the noisy city.


Eva wondered within herself what good the tiny Elves could do in this

great place; but she soon learned, for the Fairy band went among the

poor and friendless, bringing pleasant dreams to the sick and old,

sweet, tender thoughts of love and gentleness to the young, strength

to the weak, and patient cheerfulness to the poor and lonely.


Then the child wondered no longer, but deeper grew her love

for the tender-hearted Elves, who left their own happy home to cheer

and comfort those who never knew what hands had clothed and fed them,

what hearts had given of their own joy, and brought such happiness

to theirs.


Long they stayed, and many a lesson little Eva learned: but when

she begged them to go back, they still led her on, saying, “Our work

is not yet done; shall we leave so many sad hearts when we may

cheer them, so many dark homes that we may brighten? We must stay

yet longer, little Eva, and you may learn yet more.”


Then they went into a dark and lonely room, and here they found

a pale, sad-eyed child, who wept bitter tears over a faded flower.


“Ah,” sighed the little one, “it was m

oved away, not toward the supper-room, but against the tide

which was setting thither. The faces about her flowed by like the

streaming images of sleep: she hardly noticed where Selden was leading

her, till they passed through a glass doorway at the end of the long

suite of rooms and stood suddenly in the fragrant hush of a garden.

Gravel grated beneath their feet, and about them was the transparent

dimness of a midsummer night. Hanging lights made emerald caverns in the

depths of foliage, and whitened the spray of a fountain falling among

lilies. The magic place was deserted: there was no sound but the splash

of the water on the lily-pads, and a distant drift of music that might

have been blown across a sleeping lake.
Selden and Lily stood still, accepting the unreality of the scene as a

part of their own dream-like sensations. It would not have surprised them

to feel a summer breeze on their faces, or to see the lights among the

boughs reduplicated in the arch of a starry sky. The strange solitude

about them was no stranger than the sweetness of being alone in it

together. At length Lily withdrew her hand, and moved away a step, so

that her white-robed slimness was outlined against the dusk of the

branches. Selden followed her, and still without speaking they seated

themselves on a bench beside the fountain.
Suddenly she raised her eyes with the beseeching earnestness of a child.

“You never speak to me—you think hard things of me,” she murmured.
“I think of you at any rate, God knows!” he said.
“Then why do we never see each other? Why can’t we be friends? You

promised once to help me,” she continued in the same tone, as though the

words were drawn from her unwillingly.
“The only way I can help you is by loving you,” Selden said in a low

voice.
She made no reply, but her face turned to him with the soft motion of a

flower. His own met it slowly, and their lips touched. She drew back and

rose from her seat. Selden rose too, and they stood facing each other.

Suddenly she caught his hand and pressed it a moment against her cheek.
“Ah, love me, love me—but don’t tell me so!” she sighed with her eyes in

his; and before he could speak she had turned and slipped through the

arch of boughs, disappearing in the brightness of the room beyond.
Selden stood where she had left him. He knew too well the transiency of

exquisite moments to attempt to follow her; but presently he reentered

the house and made his way through the deserted rooms to the door. A few

sumptuously-cloaked ladies were already gathered in the marble vestibule,

and in the coat-room he found Van Alstyne and Gus Trenor.
The former, at Selden’s approach, paused in the careful selection of a

cigar from one of the silver boxes invitingly set out near the door.
“Hallo, Selden, going too? You’re an Epicurean like myself, I see: you

don’t want to see all those goddesses gobbling terrapin. Gad, what a

show of good-looking women; but not one of ’em could touch that little

cousin of mine. Talk of jewels—what’s a woman want with jewels when

she’s got herself to show? The trouble is that all these fal-bals they

wear cover up their figures when they’ve got ’em. I never knew till

tonight what an outline Lily has.”
“It’s not her fault if everybody don’t know it now,” growled Trenor,

flushed with the struggle of getting into his fur-lined coat. “Damned bad

taste, I call it—no, no cigar for me. You can’t tell what you’re smoking

in one of these new houses—likely as not the CHEF buys the cigars. Stay

for supper? Not if I know it! When people crowd their rooms so that you

can’t get near any one you want to speak to, I’d as soon sup in the

elevated at the rush hour. My wife was dead right to stay away: she says

life’s too short to spend it in breaking in new people.”


Chapter 13
Lily woke from happy dreams to find two notes at her bed-side.
One was from Mrs. Trenor, who announced that she was coming to town that

afternoon for a flying visit, and hoped Miss Bart would be able to dine

with her. The other was from Selden. He wrote briefly that an important

case called him to Albany, whence he would be unable to return till the

evening, and asked Lily to let him know at what hour on the following day

she would see him.
Lily, leaning back among her pillows, gazed musingly at his letter. The

scene in the Brys’ conservatory had been like a part of her dreams; she

had not expected to wake to such evidence of its reality. Her first

movement was one of annoyance: this unforeseen act of Selden’s added

another complication to life. It was so unlike him to yield to such an

irrational impulse! Did he really mean to ask her to marry him? She had

once shown him the impossibility of such a hope, and his subsequent

behaviour seemed to prove that he had accepted the situation with a

reasonableness somewhat mortifying to her vanity. It was all the more

agreeable to find that this reasonableness was maintained only at the

cost of not seeing her; but, though nothing in life was as sweet as the

sense of her power over him, she saw the danger of allowing the episode

of the previous night to have a sequel. Since she could not marry him, it

would be kinder to him, as well as easier for herself, to write a line

amicably evading his request to see her: he was not the man to mistake

such a hint, and when next they met it would be on their usual friendly

footing.
Lily sprang out of bed, and went straight to her desk. She wanted to

write at once, while she could trust to the strength of her resolve. She

was still languid from her brief sleep and the exhilaration of the

evening, and the sight of Selden’s writing brought back the culminating

moment of her triumph: the moment when she had read in his eyes that no

philosophy was proof against her power. It would be pleasant to have that

sensation again . . . no one else could give it to her in its fulness;

and she could not bear to mar her mood of luxurious retrospection by an

act of definite refusal. She took up her pen and wrote hastily: “TOMORROW

AT FOUR;” murmuring to herself, as she slipped the sheet into its

envelope: “I can easily put him off when tomorrow comes.”

Judy Trenor’s summons was very welcome to Lily. It was the first time she

had received a direct communication from Bellomont since the close of her

last visit there, and she was still visited by the dread of having

incurred Judy’s displeasure. But this characteristic command seemed to

reestablish their former relations; and Lily smiled at the thought that

her friend had probably summoned her in order to hear about the Brys’

entertainment. Mrs. Trenor had absented herself from the feast, perhaps

for the reason so frankly enunciated by her husband, perhaps because, as

Mrs. Fisher somewhat differently put it, she “couldn’t bear new people

when she hadn’t discovered them herself.” At any rate, though she

remained haughtily at Bellomont, Lily suspected in her a devouring

eagerness to hear of what she had missed, and to learn exactly in what

measure Mrs. Wellington Bry had surpassed all previous competitors for

social recognition. Lily was quite ready to gratify this curiosity, but

it happened that she was dining out. She determined, however, to see Mrs.

Trenor for a few moments, and ringing for her maid she despatched a

telegram to say that she would be with her friend that evening at ten.
She was dining with Mrs. Fisher, who had gathered at an informal feast a

few of the performers of the previous evening. There was to be plantation

music in the studio after dinner—for Mrs. Fisher, despairing of the

republic, had taken up modelling, and annexed to her small crowded house

a spacious apartment, which, whatever its uses in her hours of plastic

inspiration, served at other times for the exercise of an indefatigable

hospitality. Lily was reluctant to leave, for the dinner was amusing, and

she would have liked to lounge over a cigarette and hear a few songs; but

she could not break her engagement with Judy, and shortly after ten she

asked her hostess to ring for a hansom, and drove up Fifth Avenue to the

Trenors’.
She waited long enough on the doorstep to wonder that Judy’s presence in

town was not signalized by a greater promptness in admitting her; and her

surprise was increased when, instead of the expected footman, pushing his

shoulders into a tardy coat, a shabby care-taking person in calico let

her into the shrouded hall. Trenor, however, appeared at once on the

threshold of the drawing-room, welcoming her with unusual volubility

while he relieved her of her cloak and drew her into the room.
“Come along to the den; it’s the only comfortable place in the house.

Doesn’t this room look as if it was waiting for the body to be brought

down? Can’t see why Judy keeps the house wrapped up in this awful

slippery white stuff—it’s enough to give a fellow pneumonia to walk

through these rooms on a cold day. You look a little pinched yourself, by

the way: it’s rather a sharp night out. I noticed it walking up from the

club. Come along, and I’ll give you a nip of brandy, and you can toast

yourself over the fire and try some of my new Egyptians—that little

Turkish chap at the Embassy put me on to a brand that I want you to try,

and if you like ’em I’ll get out a lot for you: they don’t have ’em here

yet, but I’ll cable.”
He led her through the house to the large room at the back, where Mrs.

Trenor usually sat, and where, even in her absence, there was an air of

occupancy. Here, as usual, were flowers, newspapers, a littered

writing-table, and a general aspect of lamp-lit familiarity, so that it

was a surprise not to see Judy’s energetic figure start up from the

arm-chair near the fire.
It was apparently Trenor himself who had been occupying the seat in

question, for it was overhung by a cloud of cigar smoke, and near it

stood one of those intricate folding tables which British ingenuity has

devised to facilitate the circulation of tobacco and spirits. The sight

of such appliances in a drawing-room was not unusual in Lily’s set, where

smoking and drinking were unrestricted by considerations of time and

place, and her first movement was to help herself to one of the

cigarettes recommended by Trenor, while she checked his loquacity by

asking, with a surprised glance: “Where’s Judy?”
Trenor, a little heated by his unusual flow of words, and perhaps by

prolonged propinquity with the decanters, was bending over the latter to

decipher their silver labels.
“Here, now, Lily, just a drop of cognac in a little fizzy water—you do

look pinched, you know: I swear the end of your nose is red. I’ll take

another glass to keep you company—Judy?—Why, you see, Judy’s got a

devil of a head ache—quite knocked out with it, poor thing—she asked me

to explain—make it all right, you know—Do come up to the fire, though;

you look dead-beat, really. Now do let me make you comfortable, there’s a

good girl.”
He had taken her hand, half-banteringly, and was drawing her toward a low

seat by the hearth; but she stopped and freed herself quietly.
“Do you mean to say that Judy’s not well enough to see me? Doesn’t she

want me to go upstairs?”
Trenor drained the glass he had filled for himself, and paused to set it

down before he answered.
“Why, no—the fact is, she’s not up to seeing anybody. It came on

suddenly, you know, and she asked me to tell you how awfully sorry she

was—if she’d known where you were dining she’d have sent you word.”
“She did know where I was dining; I mentioned it in my telegram. But it

doesn’t matter, of course. I suppose if she’s so poorly she won’t go back

to Bellomont in the morning, and I can come and see her then.”
“Yes: exactly—that’s capital. I’ll tell her you’ll pop in tomorrow

morning. And now do sit down a minute, there’s a dear, and let’s have a

nice quiet jaw together. You won’t take a drop, just for sociability?

Tell me what you think of that cigarette. Why, don’t you like it? What

are you chucking it away for?”
“I am chucking it away because I must go, if you’ll have the goodness to

call a cab for me,” Lily returned with a smile.
She did not like Trenor’s unusual excitability, with its too evident

explanation, and the thought of being alone with him, with her friend out

of reach upstairs, at the other end of the great empty house, did not

conduce to a desire to prolong their TETE-A-TETE.
But Trenor, with a promptness which did not escape her, had moved between

herself and the door.
“Why must you go, I should like to know? If Judy’d been here you’d have

sat gossiping till all hours—and you can’t even give me five minutes!

It’s always the same story. Last night I couldn’t get near you—I went to

that damned vulgar party just to see you, and there was everybody talking

about you, and asking me if I’d ever seen anything so stunning, and when

I tried to come up and say a word, you never took any notice, but just

went on laughing and joking with a lot of asses who only wanted to be

able to swagger about afterward, and look knowing when you were

mentioned.”
He paused, flushed by his diatribe, and fixing on her a look in which

resentment was the ingredient she least disliked. But she had regained

her presence of mind, and stood composedly in the middle of the room,

while her slight smile seemed to put an ever increasing distance between

herself and Trenor.
Across it she said: “Don’t be absurd, Gus. It’s past eleven, and I must

really ask you to ring for a cab.”
He remained immovable, with the lowering forehead she had grown to detest.
“And supposing I won’t ring for one—what’ll you do then?”
“I shall go upstairs to Judy if you force me to disturb her.”
Trenor drew a step nearer and laid his hand on her arm. “Look here, Lily:

won’t you give me five minutes of your own accord?”
“Not tonight, Gus: you——”
“Very good, then: I’ll take ’em. And as many more as I want.” He had

squared himself on the threshold, his hands thrust deep in his pockets.

He nodded toward the chair on the hearth.
“Go and sit down there, please: I’ve got a word to say to you.”
Lily’s quick temper was getting the better of her fears. She drew herself

up and moved toward the door.
“If you have anything to say to me, you must say it another time. I

shall go up to Judy unless you call a cab for me at once.”
He burst into a laugh. “Go upstairs and welcome, my dear; but you won’t

find Judy. She ain’t there.”
Lily cast a startled look upon him. “Do you mean that Judy is not in the

house—not in town?” she exclaimed.
“That’s just what I do mean,” returned Trenor, his bluster sinking to

sullenness under her look.
“Nonsense—I don’t believe you. I am going upstairs,” she said

impatiently.
He drew unexpectedly aside, letting her reach the threshold unimpeded.
“Go up and welcome; but my wife is at Bellomont.”
But Lily had a flash of reassurance. “If she hadn’t come she would have

sent me word——”
“She did; she telephoned me this afternoon to let you know.”
“I received no message.”
“I didn’t send any.”
The two measured each other for a moment, but Lily still saw her opponent

through a blur of scorn that made all other considerations indistinct.
“I can’t imagine your object in playing such a stupid trick on me; but if

you have fully gratified your peculiar sense of humour I must again ask

you to send for a cab.”
It was the wrong note, and she knew it as she spoke. To be stung by irony

it is not necessary to understand it, and the angry streaks on Trenor’s

face might have been raised by an actual lash.
“Look here, Lily, don’t take that high and mighty tone with me.” He had

again moved toward the door, and in her instinctive shrinking from him

she let him regain command of the threshold. “I DID play a trick on you;

I own up to it; but if you think I’m ashamed you’re mistaken. Lord knows

I’ve been patient enough—I’ve hung round and looked like an ass. And

all the while you were letting a lot of other fellows make up to

you . . . letting ’em make fun of me, I daresay . . . I’m not sharp, and

can’t dress my friends up to look funny, as you do . . . but I can tell

when it’s being done to me.... I can tell fast enough when I’m made a

fool of....”
“Ah, I shouldn’t have thought that!” flashed from Lily; but her laugh

dropped to silence under his look.
“No; you wouldn’t have thought it; but you’ll know better now. That’s

what you’re here for tonight. I’ve been waiting for a quiet time to talk

things over, and now I’ve got it I mean to make you hear me out.”
His first rush of inarticulate resentment had been followed by a

steadiness and concentration of tone more disconcerting to Lily than the

excitement preceding it. For a moment her presence of mind forsook her.

She had more than once been in situations where a quick sword-play of wit

had been needful to cover her retreat; but her frightened heart-throbs

told her that here such skill would not avail.
To gain time she repeated: “I don’t understand what you want.”
Trenor had pushed a chair between herself and the door. He threw himself

in it, and leaned back, looking up at her.
“I’ll tell you what I want: I want to know just where you and I stand.

Hang it, the man who pays for the dinner is generally allowed to have a

seat at table.”
She flamed with anger and abasement, and the sickening need of having to

conciliate where she longed to humble.
“I don’t know what you mean—but you must see, Gus, that I can’t stay

here talking to you at this hour——”
“Gad, you go to men’s houses fast enough in broad day light—strikes me

you’re not always so deuced careful of appearances.”
The brutality of the thrust gave her the sense of dizziness that follows

on a physical blow. Rosedale had spoken then—this was the way men talked

of her—She felt suddenly weak and defenceless: there was a throb of

self-pity in her throat. But all the while another self was sharpening

her to vigilance, whispering the terrified warning that every word and

gesture must be measured.
“If you have brought me here to say insulting things——” she began.
Trenor laughed. “Don’t talk stage-rot. I don’t want to insult you. But a

man’s got his feelings—and you’ve played with mine too long. I didn’t

begin this business—kept out of the way, and left the track clear for

the other chaps, till you rummaged me out and set to work to make an ass

of me—and an easy job you had of it, too. That’s the trouble—it was too

easy for you—you got reckless—thought you could turn me inside out, and

chuck me in the gutter like an empty purse. But, by gad, that ain’t

playing fair: that’s dodging the rules of the game. Of course I know now

what you wanted—it wasn’t my beautiful eyes you were after—but I tell

you what, Miss Lily, you’ve got to pay up for making me think so——”
He rose, squaring his shoulders aggressively, and stepped toward her with

a reddening brow; but she held her footing, though every nerve tore at

her to retreat as he advanced.
“Pay up?” she faltered. “Do you mean that I owe you money?”
He laughed again. “Oh, I’m not asking for payment in kind. But there’s

such a thing as fair play—and interest on one’s money—and hang me if

I’ve had as much as a look from you——”
“Your money? What have I to do with your money? You advised me how to

invest mine . . . you must have seen I knew nothing of business . . .

you told me it was all right——”
“It WAS

s, but he was always ready

      for just one fight more. He would put his head on one side, as though he

      were afraid to look his enemy in the face; then he would shoot it out like

      lightning, and when the big teeth were firmly fixed on the other seal’s

      neck, the other seal might get away if he could, but Sea Catch would not

      help him.

    


      Yet Sea Catch never chased a beaten seal, for that was against the Rules

      of the Beach. He only wanted room by the sea for his nursery. But as there

      were forty or fifty thousand other seals hunting for the same thing each

      spring, the whistling, bellowing, roaring, and blowing on the beach was

      something frightful.

    


      From a little hill called Hutchinson’s Hill, you could look over three and

      a half miles of ground covered with fighting seals; and the surf was

      dotted all over with the heads of seals hurrying to land and begin their

      share of the fighting. They fought in the breakers, they fought in the

      sand, and they fought on the smooth-worn basalt rocks of the nurseries,

      for they were just as stupid and unaccommodating as men. Their wives never

      came to the island until late in May or early in June, for they did not

      care to be torn to pieces; and the young two-, three-, and four-year-old

      seals who had not begun housekeeping went inland about half a mile through

      the ranks of the fighters and played about on the sand dunes in droves and

      legions, and rubbed off every single green thing that grew. They were

      called the holluschickie—the bachelors—and there were perhaps

      two or three hundred thousand of them at Novastoshnah alone.

    


      Sea Catch had just finished his forty-fifth fight one spring when Matkah,

      his soft, sleek, gentle-eyed wife, came up out of the sea, and he caught

      her by the scruff of the neck and dumped her down on his reservation,

      saying gruffly: “Late as usual. Where have you been?”

     


      It was not the fashion for Sea Catch to eat anything during the four

      months he stayed on the beaches, and so his temper was generally bad.

      Matkah knew better than to answer back. She looked round and cooed: “How

      thoughtful of you. You’ve taken the old place again.”

     


      “I should think I had,” said Sea Catch. “Look at me!”

     


      He was scratched and bleeding in twenty places; one eye was almost out,

      and his sides were torn to ribbons.

    


      “Oh, you men, you men!” Matkah said, fanning herself with her hind

      flipper. “Why can’t you be sensible and settle your places quietly? You

      look as though you had been fighting with the Killer Whale.”

     


      “I haven’t been doing anything but fight since the middle of May. The

      beach is disgracefully crowded this season. I’ve met at least a hundred

      seals from Lukannon Beach, house hunting. Why can’t people stay where they

      belong?”

     


      “I’ve often thought we should be much happier if we hauled out at Otter

      Island instead of this crowded place,” said Matkah.

    


      “Bah! Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island. If we went there they

      would say we were afraid. We must preserve appearances, my dear.”

     


      Sea Catch sunk his head proudly between his fat shoulders and pretended to

      go to sleep for a few minutes, but all the time he was keeping a sharp

      lookout for a fight. Now that all the seals and their wives were on the

      land, you could hear their clamor miles out to sea above the loudest

      gales. At the lowest counting there were over a million seals on the beach—old

      seals, mother seals, tiny babies, and holluschickie, fighting, scuffling,

      bleating, crawling, and playing together—going down to the sea and

      coming up from it in gangs and regiments, lying over every foot of ground

      as far as the eye could reach, and skirmishing about in brigades through

      the fog. It is nearly always foggy at Novastoshnah, except when the sun

      comes out and makes everything look all pearly and rainbow-colored for a

      little while.

    


      Kotick, Matkah’s baby, was born in the middle of that confusion, and he

      was all head and shoulders, with pale, watery blue eyes, as tiny seals

      must be, but there was something about his coat that made his mother look

      at him very closely.

    


      “Sea Catch,” she said, at last, “our baby’s going to be white!”

     


      “Empty clam-shells and dry seaweed!” snorted Sea Catch. “There never has

      been such a thing in the world as a white seal.”

     


      “I can’t help that,” said Matkah; “there’s going to be now.” And she sang

      the low, crooning seal song that all the mother seals sing to their

      babies:

    


      Of course the little fellow did not understand the words at first. He

      paddled and scrambled about by his mother’s side, and learned to scuffle

      out of the way when his father was fighting with another seal, and the two

      rolled and roared up and down the slippery rocks. Matkah used to go to sea

      to get things to eat, and the baby was fed only once in two days, but then

      he ate all he could and throve upon it.

    


      The first thing he did was to crawl inland, and there he met tens of

      thousands of babies of his own age, and they played together like puppies,

      went to sleep on the clean sand, and played again. The old people in the

      nurseries took no notice of them, and the holluschickie kept to their own

      grounds, and the babies had a beautiful playtime.

    


      When Matkah came back from her deep-sea fishing she would go straight to

      their playground and call as a sheep calls for a lamb, and wait until she

      heard Kotick bleat. Then she would take the straightest of straight lines

      in his direction, striking out with her fore flippers and knocking the

      youngsters head over heels right and left. There were always a few hundred

      mothers hunting for their children through the playgrounds, and the babies

      were kept lively. But, as Matkah told Kotick, “So long as you don’t lie in

      muddy water and get mange, or rub the hard sand into a cut or scratch, and

      so long as you never go swimming when there is a heavy sea, nothing will

      hurt you here.”

     


      Little seals can no more swim than little children, but they are unhappy

      till they learn. The first time that Kotick went down to the sea a wave

      carried him out beyond his depth, and his big head sank and his little

      hind flippers flew up exactly as his mother had told him in the song, and

      if the next wave had not thrown him back again he would have drowned.

    


      After that, he learned to lie in a beach pool and let the wash of the

      waves just cover him and lift him up while he paddled, but he always kept

      his eye open for big waves that might hurt. He was two weeks learning to

      use his flippers; and all that while he floundered in and out of the

      water, and coughed and grunted and crawled up the beach and took catnaps

      on the sand, and went back again, until at last he found that he truly

      belonged to the water.

    


      Then you can imagine the times that he had with his companions, ducking

      under the rollers; or coming in on top of a comber and landing with a

      swash and a splutter as the big wave went whirling far up the beach; or

      standing up on his tail and scratching his head as the old people did; or

      playing “I’m the King of the Castle” on slippery, weedy rocks that just

      stuck out of the wash. Now and then he would see a thin fin, like a big

      shark’s fin, drifting along close to shore, and he knew that that was the

      Killer Whale, the Grampus, who eats young seals when he can get them; and

      Kotick would head for the beach like an arrow, and the fin would jig off

      slowly, as if it were looking for nothing at all.

    


      Late in October the seals began to leave St. Paul’s for the deep sea, by

      families and tribes, and there was no more fighting over the nurseries,

      and the holluschickie played anywhere they liked. “Next year,” said Matkah

      to Kotick, “you will be a holluschickie; but this year you must learn how

      to catch fish.”

     


      They set out together across the Pacific, and Matkah showed Kotick how to

      sleep on his back with his flippers tucked down by his side and his little

      nose just out of the water. No cradle is so comfortable as the long,

      rocking swell of the Pacific. When Kotick felt his skin tingle all over,

      Matkah told him he was learning the “feel of the water,” and that tingly,

      prickly feelings meant bad weather coming, and he must swim hard and get

      away.

    
 {9166}     


      “In a little time,” she said, “you’ll know where to swim to, but just now

      we’ll follow Sea Pig, the Porpoise, for he is very wise.” A school of

      porpoises were ducking and tearing through the water, and little Kotick

      followed them as fast as he could. “How do you know where to go to?” he

      panted. The leader of the school rolled his white eye and ducked under.

      “My tail tingles, youngster,” he said. “That means there’s a gale behind

      me. Come along! When you’re south of the Sticky Water [he meant the

      Equator] and your tail tingles, that means there’s a gale in front of you

      and you must head north. Come along! The water feels bad here.”

     


      This was one of very many things that Kotick learned, and he was always

      learning. Matkah taught him to follow the cod and the halibut along the

      under-sea banks and wrench the rockling out of his hole among the weeds;

      how to skirt the wrecks lying a hundred fathoms below water and dart like

      a rifle bullet in at one porthole and out at another as the fishes ran;

      how to dance on the top of the waves when the lightning was racing all

      over the sky, and wave his flipper politely to the stumpy-tailed Albatross

      and the Man-of-war Hawk as they went down the wind; how to jump three or

      four feet clear of the water like a dolphin, flippers close to the side

      and tail curved; to leave the flying fish alone because they are all bony;

      to take the shoulder-piece out of a cod at full speed ten fathoms deep,

      and never to stop and look at a boat or a ship, but particularly a

      row-boat. At the end of six months what Kotick did not know about deep-sea

      fishing was not worth the knowing. And all that time he never set flipper

      on dry ground.

    


      One day, however, as he was lying half asleep in the warm water somewhere

      off the Island of Juan Fernandez, he felt faint and lazy all over, just as

      human people do when the spring is in their legs, and he remembered the

      good firm beaches of Novastoshnah seven thousand miles away, the games his

      companions played, the smell of the seaweed, the seal roar, and the

      fighting. That very minute he turned north, swimming steadily, and as he

      went on he met scores of his mates, all bound for the same place, and they

      said: “Greeting, Kotick! This year we are all holluschickie, and we can

      dance the Fire-dance in the breakers off Lukannon and play on the new

      grass. But where did you get that coat?”

     


      Kotick’s fur was almost pure white now, and though he felt very proud of

      it, he only said, “Swim quickly! My bones are aching for the land.” And so

      they all came to the beaches where they had been born, and heard the old

      seals, their fathers, fighting in the rolling mist.

    


      That night Kotick danced the Fire-dance with the yearling seals. The sea

      is full of fire on summer nights all the way down from Novastoshnah to

      Lukannon, and each seal leaves a wake like burning oil behind him and a

      flaming flash when he jumps, and the waves break in great phosphorescent

      streaks and swirls. Then they went inland to the holluschickie grounds and

      rolled up and down in the new wild wheat and told stories of what they had

      done while they had been at sea. They talked about the Pacific as boys

      would talk about a wood that they had been nutting in, and if anyone had

      understood them he could have gone away and made such a chart of that

      ocean as never was. The three- and four-year-old holluschickie romped down

      from Hutchinson’s Hill crying: “Out of the way, youngsters! The sea is

      deep and you don’t know all that’s in it yet. Wait till you’ve rounded the

      Horn. Hi, you yearling, where did you get that white coat?”

     


      “I didn’t get it,” said Kotick. “It grew.” And just as he was going to

      roll the speaker over, a couple of black-haired men with flat red faces

      came from behind a sand dune, and Kotick, who had never seen a man before,

      coughed and lowered his head. The holluschickie just bundled off a few

      yards and sat staring stupidly. The men were no less than Kerick Booterin,

      the chief of the seal-hunters on the island, and Patalamon, his son. They

      came from the little village not half a mile from the sea nurseries, and

      they were deciding what seals they would drive up to the killing pens—for

      the seals were driven just like sheep—to be turned into seal-skin

      jackets later on.

    


      “Ho!” said Patalamon. “Look! There’s a white seal!”

     


      Kerick Booterin turned nearly white under his oil and smoke, for he was an

      Aleut, and Aleuts are not clean people. Then he began to mutter a prayer.

      “Don’t touch him, Patalamon. There has never been a white seal since—since

      I was born. Perhaps it is old Zaharrof’s ghost. He was lost last year in

      the big gale.”

     


      “I’m not going near him,” said Patalamon. “He’s unlucky. Do you really

      think he is old Zaharrof come back? I owe him for some gulls’ eggs.”

     


      “Don’t look at him,” said Kerick. “Head off that drove of four-year-olds.

      The men ought to skin two hundred to-day, but it’s the beginning of the

      season and they are new to the work. A hundred will do. Quick!”

     


      Patalamon rattled a pair of seal’s shoulder bones in front of a herd of

      holluschickie and they stopped dead, puffing and blowing. Then he stepped

      near and the seals began to move, and Kerick headed them inland, and they

      never tried to get back to their companions. Hundreds and hundreds of

      thousands of seals watched them being driven, but they went on playing

      just the same. Kotick was the only one who asked questions, and none of

      his companions could tell him anything, except that the men always drove

      seals in that way for six weeks or two months of every year.

    


      “I am going to follow,” he said, and his eyes nearly popped out of his

      head as he shuffled along in the wake of the herd.

    


      “The white seal is coming after us,” cried Patalamon. “That’s the first

      time a seal has ever come to the killing-grounds alone.”

     


      “Hsh! Don’t look behind you,” said Kerick. “It is Zaharrof’s ghost! I must

      speak to the priest about this.”

     


      The distance to the killing-grounds was only half a mile, but it took an

      hour to cover, because if the seals went too fast Kerick knew that they

      would get heated and then their fur would come off in patches when they

      were skinned. So they went on very slowly, past Sea Lion’s Neck, past

      Webster House, till they came to the Salt House just beyond the sight of

      the seals on the beach. Kotick followed, panting and wondering. He thought

      that he was at the world’s end, but the roar of the seal nurseries behind

      him sounded as loud as the roar of a train in a tunnel. Then Kerick sat

      down on the moss and pulled out a heavy pewter watch and let the drove

      cool off for thirty minutes, and Kotick could hear the fog-dew dripping

      off the brim of his cap. Then ten or twelve men, each with an iron-bound

      club three or four feet long, came up, and Kerick pointed out one or two

      of the drove that were bitten by their companions or too hot, and the men

      kicked those aside with their heavy boots made of the skin of a walrus’s

      throat, and then Kerick said, “Let go!” and then the men clubbed the seals

      on the head as fast as they could.

    


      Ten minutes later little Kotick did not recognize his friends any more,

      for their skins were ripped off from the nose to the hind flippers,

      whipped off and thrown down on the ground in a pile. That was enough for

      Kotick. He turned and galloped (a seal can gallop very swiftly for a short

      time) back to the sea; his little new mustache bristling with horror. At

      Sea Lion’s Neck, where the great sea lions sit on the edge of the surf, he

      flung himself flipper-overhead into the cool water and rocked there,

      gasping miserably. “What’s here?” said a sea lion gruffly, for as a rule

      the sea lions keep themselves to themselves.

    


      “Scoochnie! Ochen scoochnie!” (“I’m lonesome, very lonesome!”) said

      Kotick. “They’re killing all the holluschickie on all the beaches!”

     


      The Sea Lion turned his head inshore. “Nonsense!” he said. “Your friends

      are making as much noise as ever. You must have seen old Kerick polishing

      off a drove. He’s done that for thirty years.”

     


      “It’s horrible,” said Kotick, backing water as a wave went over him, and

      steadying himself with a screw stroke of his flippers that brought him all

      standing within three inches of a jagged edge of rock.

    


      “Well done for a yearling!” said the Sea Lion, who could appreciate good

      swimming. “I suppose it is rather awful from your way of looking at it,

      but if you seals will come here year after year, of course the men get to

      know of it, and unless you can find an island where no men ever come you

      will always be driven.”

     


      “Isn’t there any such island?” began Kotick.

    


      “I’ve followed the poltoos [the halibut] for twenty years, and I can’t say

      I’ve found it yet. But look here—you seem to have a fondness for

      talking to your betters—suppose you go to Walrus Islet and talk to

      Sea Vitch. He may know something. Don’t flounce off like that. It’s a

      six-mile swim, and if I were you I should haul out and take a nap first,

      little one.”

     


      Kotick thought that that was good advice, so he swam round to his own

      beach, hauled out, and slept for half an hour, twitching all over, as

      seals will. Then he headed straight for Walrus Islet, a little low sheet

      of rocky island almost due northeast from Novast

 its

      honesty and simplicity.

    


      Feeling restless now that she had so unwittingly spoken, she arose and

      stepped to the window, having heard the voices of her father and Mrs.

      Swancourt coming up below the terrace. ‘Here they are,’ she said, going

      out. Knight walked out upon the lawn behind her. She stood upon the edge

      of the terrace, close to the stone balustrade, and looked towards the sun,

      hanging over a glade just now fair as Tempe’s vale, up which her father

      was walking.

    


      Knight could not help looking at her. The sun was within ten degrees of

      the horizon, and its warm light flooded her face and heightened the bright

      rose colour of her cheeks to a vermilion red, their moderate pink hue

      being only seen in its natural tone where the cheek curved round into

      shadow. The ends of her hanging hair softly dragged themselves backwards

      and forwards upon her shoulder as each faint breeze thrust against or

      relinquished it. Fringes and ribbons of her dress, moved by the same

      breeze, licked like tongues upon the parts around them, and fluttering

      forward from shady folds caught likewise their share of the lustrous

      orange glow.

    


      Mr. Swancourt shouted out a welcome to Knight from a distance of about

      thirty yards, and after a few preliminary words proceeded to a

      conversation of deep earnestness on Knight’s fine old family name, and

      theories as to lineage and intermarriage connected therewith. Knight’s

      portmanteau having in the meantime arrived, they soon retired to prepare

      for dinner, which had been postponed two hours later than the usual time

      of that meal.

    


      An arrival was an event in the life of Elfride, now that they were again

      in the country, and that of Knight necessarily an engrossing one. And that

      evening she went to bed for the first time without thinking of Stephen at

      all.

    


 


      Chapter XVIII

    


      The old tower of West Endelstow Church had reached the last weeks of its

      existence. It was to be replaced by a new one from the designs of Mr.

      Hewby, the architect who had sent down Stephen. Planks and poles had

      arrived in the churchyard, iron bars had been thrust into the venerable

      crack extending down the belfry wall to the foundation, the bells had been

      taken down, the owls had forsaken this home of their forefathers, and six

      iconoclasts in white fustian, to whom a cracked edifice was a species of

      Mumbo Jumbo, had taken lodgings in the village previous to beginning the

      actual removal of the stones.

    


      This was the day after Knight’s arrival. To enjoy for the last time the

      prospect seaward from the summit, the vicar, Mrs. Swancourt, Knight, and

      Elfride, all ascended the winding turret—Mr. Swancourt stepping

      forward with many loud breaths, his wife struggling along silently, but

      suffering none the less. They had hardly reached the top when a large

      lurid cloud, palpably a reservoir of rain, thunder, and lightning, was

      seen to be advancing overhead from the north.

    


      The two cautious elders suggested an immediate return, and proceeded to

      put it in practice as regarded themselves.

    


      ‘Dear me, I wish I had not come up,’ exclaimed Mrs. Swancourt.

    


      ‘We shall be slower than you two in going down,’ the vicar said over his

      shoulder, ‘and so, don’t you start till we are nearly at the bottom, or

      you will run over us and break our necks somewhere in the darkness of the

      turret.’ 

    


      Accordingly Elfride and Knight waited on the leads till the staircase

      should be clear. Knight was not in a talkative mood that morning. Elfride

      was rather wilful, by reason of his inattention, which she privately set

      down to his thinking her not worth talking to. Whilst Knight stood

      watching the rise of the cloud, she sauntered to the other side of the

      tower, and there remembered a giddy feat she had performed the year

      before. It was to walk round upon the parapet of the tower—which was

      quite without battlement or pinnacle, and presented a smooth flat surface

      about two feet wide, forming a pathway on all the four sides. Without

      reflecting in the least upon what she was doing she now stepped upon the

      parapet in the old way, and began walking along.

    


      ‘We are down, cousin Henry,’ cried Mrs. Swancourt up the turret. ‘Follow

      us when you like.’ 

    


      Knight turned and saw Elfride beginning her elevated promenade. His face

      flushed with mingled concern and anger at her rashness.

    


      ‘I certainly gave you credit for more common sense,’ he said.

    


      She reddened a little and walked on.

    


      ‘Miss Swancourt, I insist upon your coming down,’ he exclaimed.

    


      ‘I will in a minute. I am safe enough. I have done it often.’ 

    


      At that moment, by reason of a slight perturbation his words had caused in

      her, Elfride’s foot caught itself in a little tuft of grass growing in a

      joint of the stone-work, and she almost lost her balance. Knight sprang

      forward with a face of horror. By what seemed the special interposition of

      a considerate Providence she tottered to the inner edge of the parapet

      instead of to the outer, and reeled over upon the lead roof two or three

      feet below the wall.

    


      Knight seized her as in a vice, and he said, panting, ‘That ever I should

      have met a woman fool enough to do a thing of that kind! Good God, you

      ought to be ashamed of yourself!’ 

    


      The close proximity of the Shadow of Death had made her sick and pale as a

      corpse before he spoke. Already lowered to that state, his words

      completely over-powered her, and she swooned away as he held her.

    


      Elfride’s eyes were not closed for more than forty seconds. She opened

      them, and remembered the position instantly. His face had altered its

      expression from stern anger to pity. But his severe remarks had rather

      frightened her, and she struggled to be free.

    


      ‘If you can stand, of course you may,’ he said, and loosened his arms. ‘I

      hardly know whether most to laugh at your freak or to chide you for its

      folly.’ 

    


      She immediately sank upon the lead-work. Knight lifted her again. ‘Are you

      hurt?’ he said.

    


      She murmured an incoherent expression, and tried to smile; saying, with a

      fitful aversion of her face, ‘I am only frightened. Put me down, do put me

      down!’ 

    


      ‘But you can’t walk,’ said Knight.

    


      ‘You don’t know that; how can you? I am only frightened, I tell you,’ she

      answered petulantly, and raised her hand to her forehead. Knight then saw

      that she was bleeding from a severe cut in her wrist, apparently where it

      had descended upon a salient corner of the lead-work. Elfride, too, seemed

      to perceive and feel this now for the first time, and for a minute nearly

      lost consciousness again. Knight rapidly bound his handkerchief round the

      place, and to add to the complication, the thundercloud he had been

      watching began to shed some heavy drops of rain. Knight looked up and saw

      the vicar striding towards the house, and Mrs. Swancourt waddling beside

      him like a hard-driven duck.

    


      ‘As you are so faint, it will be much better to let me carry you down,’ 

      said Knight; ‘or at any rate inside out of the rain.’ But her objection to

      be lifted made it impossible for him to support her for more than five

      steps.

    


      ‘This is folly, great folly,’ he exclaimed, setting her down.

    


      ‘Indeed!’ she murmured, with tears in her eyes. ‘I say I will not be

      carried, and you say this is folly!’ 

    


      ‘So it is.’ 

    


      ‘No, it isn’t!’ 

    


      ‘It is folly, I think. At any rate, the origin of it all is.’ 

    


      ‘I don’t agree to it. And you needn’t get so angry with me; I am not worth

      it.’ 

    


      ‘Indeed you are. You are worth the enmity of princes, as was said of such

      another. Now, then, will you clasp your hands behind my neck, that I may

      carry you down without hurting you?’ 

    


      ‘No, no.’ 

    


      ‘You had better, or I shall foreclose.’ 

    


      ‘What’s that!’ 

    


      ‘Deprive you of your chance.’ 

    


      Elfride gave a little toss.

    


      ‘Now, don’t writhe so when I attempt to carry you.’ 

    


      ‘I can’t help it.’ 

    


      ‘Then submit quietly.’ 

    


      ‘I don’t care. I don’t care,’ she murmured in languid tones and with

      closed eyes.

    


      He took her into his arms, entered the turret, and with slow and cautious

      steps descended round and round. Then, with the gentleness of a nursing

      mother, he attended to the cut on her arm. During his progress through the

      operations of wiping it and binding it up anew, her face changed its

      aspect from pained indifference to something like bashful interest,

      interspersed with small tremors and shudders of a trifling kind.

    


      In the centre of each pale cheek a small red spot the size of a wafer had

      now made its appearance, and continued to grow larger. Elfride momentarily

      expected a recurrence to the lecture on her foolishness, but Knight said

      no more than this—

    


      ‘Promise me NEVER to walk on that parapet again.’ 

    


      ‘It will be pulled down soon: so I do.’ In a few minutes she continued in

      a lower tone, and seriously, ‘You are familiar of course, as everybody is,

      with those strange sensations we sometimes have, that our life for the

      moment exists in duplicate.’ 

    


      ‘That we have lived through that moment before?’ 

    


      ‘Or shall again. Well, I felt on the tower that something similar to that

      scene is again to be common to us both.’ 

    


      ‘God forbid!’ said Knight. ‘Promise me that you will never again walk on

      any such place on any consideration.’ 

    


      ‘I do.’ 

    


      ‘That such a thing has not been before, we know. That it shall not be

      again, you vow. Therefore think no more of such a foolish fancy.’ 

    


      There had fallen a great deal of rain, but unaccompanied by lightning. A

      few minutes longer, and the storm had ceased.

    


      ‘Now, take my arm, please.’ 

    


      ‘Oh no, it is not necessary.’ This relapse into wilfulness was because he

      had again connected the epithet foolish with her.

    


      ‘Nonsense: it is quite necessary; it will rain again directly, and you are

      not half recovered.’ And without more ado Knight took her hand, drew it

      under his arm, and held it there so firmly that she could not have removed

      it without a struggle. Feeling like a colt in a halter for the first time,

      at thus being led along, yet afraid to be angry, it was to her great

      relief that she saw the carriage coming round the corner to fetch them.

    


      Her fall upon the roof was necessarily explained to some extent upon their

      entering the house; but both forbore to mention a word of what she had

      been doing to cause such an accident. During the remainder of the

      afternoon Elfride was invisible; but at dinner-time she appeared as bright

      as ever.

    


      In the drawing-room, after having been exclusively engaged with Mr. and

      Mrs. Swancourt through the intervening hour, Knight again found himself

      thrown with Elfride. She had been looking over a chess problem in one of

      the illustrated periodicals.

    


      ‘You like chess, Miss Swancourt?’ 

    


      ‘Yes. It is my favourite scientific game; indeed, excludes every other. Do

      you play?’ 

    


      ‘I have played; though not lately.’ 

    


      ‘Challenge him, Elfride,’ said the vicar heartily. ‘She plays very well

      for a lady, Mr. Knight.’ 

    


      ‘Shall we play?’ asked Elfride tentatively.

    


      ‘Oh, certainly. I shall be delighted.’ 

    


      The game began. Mr. Swancourt had forgotten a similar performance with

      Stephen Smith the year before. Elfride had not; but she had begun to take

      for her maxim the undoubted truth that the necessity of continuing

      faithful to Stephen, without suspicion, dictated a fickle behaviour almost

      as imperatively as fickleness itself; a fact, however, which would give a

      startling advantage to the latter quality should it ever appear.

    


      Knight, by one of those inexcusable oversights which will sometimes

      afflict the best of players, placed his rook in the arms of one of her

      pawns. It was her first advantage. She looked triumphant—even

      ruthless.

    


      ‘By George! what was I thinking of?’ said Knight quietly; and then

      dismissed all concern at his accident.

    


      ‘Club laws we’ll have, won’t we, Mr. Knight?’ said Elfride suasively.

    


      ‘Oh yes, certainly,’ said Mr. Knight, a thought, however, just occurring

      to his mind, that he had two or three times allowed her to replace a man

      on her religiously assuring him that such a move was an absolute blunder.

    


      She immediately took up the unfortunate rook and the contest proceeded,

      Elfride having now rather the better of the game. Then he won the

      exchange, regained his position, and began to press her hard. Elfride grew

      flurried, and placed her queen on his remaining rook’s file.

    


      ‘There—how stupid! Upon my word, I did not see your rook. Of course

      nobody but a fool would have put a queen there knowingly!’ 

    


      She spoke excitedly, half expecting her antagonist to give her back the

      move.

    


      ‘Nobody, of course,’ said Knight serenely, and stretched out his hand

      towards his royal victim.

    


      ‘It is not very pleasant to have it taken advantage of, then,’ she said

      with some vexation.

    


      ‘Club laws, I think you said?’ returned Knight blandly, and mercilessly

      appropriating the queen.

    


      She was on the brink of pouting, but was ashamed to show it; tears almost

      stood in her eyes. She had been trying so hard—so very hard—thinking

      and thinking till her brain was in a whirl; and it seemed so heartless of

      him to treat her so, after all.

    


      ‘I think it is——’ she began.

    


      ‘What?’ 

    


      —‘Unkind to take advantage of a pure mistake I make in that way.’ 

    


      ‘I lost my rook by even a purer mistake,’ said the enemy in an inexorable

      tone, without lifting his eyes.

    


      ‘Yes, but——’ However, as his logic was absolutely

      unanswerable, she merely registered a protest. ‘I cannot endure those

      cold-blooded ways of clubs and professional players, like Staunton and

      Morphy. Just as if it really mattered whether you have raised your fingers

      from a man or no!’ 

    


      Knight smiled as pitilessly as before, and they went on in silence.

    


      ‘Checkmate,’ said Knight.

    


      ‘Another game,’ said Elfride peremptorily, and looking very warm.

    


      ‘With all my heart,’ said Knight.

    


      ‘Checkmate,’ said Knight again at the end of forty minutes.

    


      ‘Another game,’ she returned resolutely.

    


      ‘I’ll give you the odds of a bishop,’ Knight said to her kindly.

    


      ‘No, thank you,’ Elfride replied in a tone intended for courteous

      indifference; but, as a fact, very cavalier indeed.

    


      ‘Checkmate,’ said her opponent without the least emotion.

    


      Oh, the difference between Elfride’s condition of mind now, and when she

      purposely made blunders that Stephen Smith might win!

    


      It was bedtime. Her mind as distracted as if it would throb itself out of

      her head, she went off to her chamber, full of mortification at being

      beaten time after time when she herself was the aggressor. Having for two

      or three years enjoyed the reputation throughout the globe of her father’s

      brain—which almost constituted her entire world—of being an

      excellent player, this fiasco was intolerable; for unfortunately the

      person most dogged in the belief in a false reputation is always that one,

      the possessor, who has the best means of knowing that it is not true.

    


      In bed no sleep came to soothe her; that gentle thing being the very

      middle-of-summer friend in this respect of flying away at the merest

      troublous cloud. After lying awake till two o’clock an idea seemed to

      strike her. She softly arose, got a light, and fetched a Chess Praxis from

      the library. Returning and sitting up in bed, she diligently studied the

      volume till the clock struck five, and her eyelids felt thick and heavy.

      She then extinguished the light and lay down again.

    


      ‘You look pale, Elfride,’ said Mrs. Swancourt the next morning at

      breakfast. ‘Isn’t she, cousin Harry?’ 

    


      A young girl who is scarcely ill at all can hardly help becoming so when

      regarded as such by all eyes turning upon her at the table in obedience to

      some remark. Everybody looked at Elfride. She certainly was pale.

    


      ‘Am I pale?’ she said with a faint smile. ‘I did not sleep much. I could

      not get rid of armies of bishops and knights, try how I would.’ 

    


      ‘Chess is a bad thing just before bedtime; especially for excitable people

      like yourself, dear. Don’t ever play late again.’ 

    


      ‘I’ll play early instead. Cousin Knight,’ she said in imitation of Mrs.

      Swancourt, ‘will you oblige me in something?’ 

    


      ‘Even to half my kingdom.’ 

    


      ‘Well, it is to play one game more.’ 

    


      ‘When?’ 

    


      ‘Now, instantly; the moment we have breakfasted.’ 

    


      ‘Nonsense, Elfride,’ said her father. ‘Making yourself a slave to the game

      like that.’ 

    


      ‘But I want to, papa! Honestly, I am restless at having been so

      ignominiously overcome. And Mr. Knight doesn’t mind. So what harm can

      there be?’ 

    


      ‘Let us play, by all means, if you wish it,’ said Knight.

    


      So, when breakfast was over, the combatants withdrew to the quiet of the

      library, and the door was closed. Elfride seemed to have an idea that her

      conduct was rather ill-regulated and startlingly free from conventional

      restraint. And worse, she fancied upon Knight’s face

oarse linen shirts per year. When these failed them, they

went naked until the next allowance-day. Children from seven to ten years old,

of both sexes, almost naked, might be seen at all seasons of the year.


There were no beds given the slaves, unless one coarse blanket be considered

such, and none but the men and women had these. This, however, is not

considered a very great privation. They find less difficulty from the want of

beds, than from the want of time to sleep; for when their day’s work in

the field is done, the most of them having their washing, mending, and cooking

to do, and having few or none of the ordinary facilities for doing either of

these, very many of their sleeping hours are consumed in preparing for the

field the coming day; and when this is done, old and young, male and female,

married and single, drop down side by side, on one common bed,—the cold,

damp floor,—each covering himself or herself with their miserable

blankets; and here they sleep till they are summoned to the field by the

driver’s horn. At the sound of this, all must rise, and be off to the

field. There must be no halting; every one must be at his or her post; and woe

betides them who hear not this morning summons to the field; for if they are

not awakened by the sense of hearing, they are by the sense of feeling: no age

nor sex finds any favor. Mr. Severe, the overseer, used to stand by the door of

the quarter, armed with a large hickory stick and heavy cowskin, ready to whip

any one who was so unfortunate as not to hear, or, from any other cause, was

prevented from being ready to start for the field at the sound of the horn.


Mr. Severe was rightly named: he was a cruel man. I have seen him whip a woman,

causing the blood to run half an hour at the time; and this, too, in the midst

of her crying children, pleading for their mother’s release. He seemed to

take pleasure in manifesting his fiendish barbarity. Added to his cruelty, he

was a profane swearer. It was enough to chill the blood and stiffen the hair of

an ordinary man to hear him talk. Scarce a sentence escaped him but that was

commenced or concluded by some horrid oath. The field was the place to witness

his cruelty and profanity. His presence made it both the field of blood and of

blasphemy. From the rising till the going down of the sun, he was cursing,

raving, cutting, and slashing among the slaves of the field, in the most

frightful manner. His career was short. He died very soon after I went to

Colonel Lloyd’s; and he died as he lived, uttering, with his dying

groans, bitter curses and horrid oaths. His death was regarded by the slaves as

the result of a merciful providence.


Mr. Severe’s place was filled by a Mr. Hopkins. He was a very different

man. He was less cruel, less profane, and made less noise, than Mr. Severe. His

course was characterized by no extraordinary demonstrations of cruelty. He

whipped, but seemed to take no pleasure in it. He was called by the slaves a

good overseer.


The home plantation of Colonel Lloyd wore the appearance of a country village.

All the mechanical operations for all the farms were performed here. The

shoemaking and mending, the blacksmithing, cartwrighting, coopering, weaving,

and grain-grinding, were all performed by the slaves on the home plantation.

The whole place wore a business-like aspect very unlike the neighboring farms.

The number of houses, too, conspired to give it advantage over the neighboring

farms. It was called by the slaves the Great House Farm. Few privileges

were esteemed higher, by the slaves of the out-farms, than that of being

selected to do errands at the Great House Farm. It was associated in their

minds with greatness. A representative could not be prouder of his election to

a seat in the American Congress, than a slave on one of the out-farms would be

of his election to do errands at the Great House Farm. They regarded it as

evidence of great confidence reposed in them by their overseers; and it was on

this account, as well as a constant desire to be out of the field from under

the driver’s lash, that they esteemed it a high privilege, one worth

careful living for. He was called the smartest and most trusty fellow, who had

this honor conferred upon him the most frequently. The competitors for this

office sought as diligently to please their overseers, as the office-seekers in

the political parties seek to please and deceive the people. The same traits of

character might be seen in Colonel Lloyd’s slaves, as are seen in the

slaves of the political parties.


The slaves selected to go to the Great House Farm, for the monthly allowance

for themselves and their fellow-slaves, were peculiarly enthusiastic. While on

their way, they would make the dense old woods, for miles around, reverberate

with their wild songs, revealing at once the highest joy and the deepest

sadness. They would compose and sing as they went along, consulting neither

time nor tune. The thought that came up, came out—if not in the word, in

the sound;—and as frequently in the one as in the other. They would

sometimes sing the most pathetic sentiment in the most rapturous tone, and the

most rapturous sentiment in the most pathetic tone. Into all of their songs

they would manage to weave something of the Great House Farm. Especially would

they do this, when leaving home. They would then sing most exultingly the

following words:—


“I am going away to the Great House Farm!

O, yea! O, yea! O!”


This they would sing, as a chorus, to words which to many would seem unmeaning

jargon, but which, nevertheless, were full of meaning to themselves. I have

sometimes thought that the mere hearing of those songs would do more to impress

some minds with the horrible character of slavery, than the reading of whole

volumes of philosophy on the subject could do.


I did not, when a slave, understand the deep meaning of those rude and

apparently incoherent songs. I was myself within the circle; so that I neither

saw nor heard as those without might see and hear. They told a tale of woe

which was then altogether beyond my feeble comprehension; they were tones loud,

long, and deep; they breathed the prayer and complaint of souls boiling over

with the bitterest anguish. Every tone was a testimony against slavery, and a

prayer to God for deliverance from chains. The hearing of those wild notes

always depressed my spirit, and filled me with ineffable sadness. I have

frequently found myself in tears while hearing them. The mere recurrence to

those songs, even now, afflicts me; and while I am writing these lines, an

expression of feeling has already found its way down my cheek. To those songs I

trace my first glimmering conception of the dehumanizing character of slavery.

I can never get rid of that conception. Those songs still follow me, to deepen

my hatred of slavery, and quicken my sympathies for my brethren in bonds. If

any one wishes to be impressed with the soul-killing effects of slavery, let

him go to Colonel Lloyd’s plantation, and, on allowance-day, place

himself in the deep pine woods, and there let him, in silence, analyze the

sounds that shall pass through the chambers of his soul,—and if he is not

thus impressed, it will only be because “there is no flesh in his

obdurate heart.”


I have often been utterly astonished, since I came to the north, to find

persons who could speak of the singing, among slaves, as evidence of their

contentment and happiness. It is impossible to conceive of a greater mistake.

Slaves sing most when they are most unhappy. The songs of the slave represent

the sorrows of his heart; and he is relieved by them, only as an aching heart

is relieved by its tears. At least, such is my experience. I have often sung to

drown my sorrow, but seldom to express my happiness. Crying for joy, and

singing for joy, were alike uncommon to me while in the jaws of slavery. The

singing of a man cast away upon a desolate island might be as appropriately

considered as evidence of contentment and happiness, as the singing of a slave;

the songs of the one and of the other are prompted by the same emotion.


 CHAPTER III


Colonel Lloyd kept a large and finely cultivated garden, which afforded almost

constant employment for four men, besides the chief gardener, (Mr.

M’Durmond.) This garden was probably the greatest attraction of the

place. During the summer months, people came from far and near—from

Baltimore, Easton, and Annapolis—to see it. It abounded in fruits of

almost every description, from the hardy apple of the north to the delicate

orange of the south. This garden was not the least source of trouble on the

plantation. Its excellent fruit was quite a temptation to the hungry swarms of

boys, as well as the older slaves, belonging to the colonel, few of whom had

the virtue or the vice to resist it. Scarcely a day passed, during the summer,

but that some slave had to take the lash for stealing fruit. The colonel had to

resort to all kinds of stratagems to keep his slaves out of the garden. The

last and most successful one was that of tarring his fence all around; after

which, if a slave was caught with any tar upon his person, it was deemed

sufficient proof that he had either been into the garden, or had tried to get

in. In either case, he was severely whipped by the chief gardener. This plan

worked well; the slaves became as fearful of tar as of the lash. They seemed to

realize the impossibility of touching tar without being defiled.


The colonel also kept a splendid riding equipage. His stable and carriage-house

presented the appearance of some of our large city livery establishments. His

horses were of the finest form and noblest blood. His carriage-house contained

three splendid coaches, three or four gigs, besides dearborns and barouches of

the most fashionable style.


This establishment was under the care of two slaves—old Barney and young

Barney—father and son. To attend to this establishment was their sole

work. But it was by no means an easy employment; for in nothing was Colonel

Lloyd more particular than in the management of his horses. The slightest

inattention to these was unpardonable, and was visited upon those, under whose

care they were placed, with the severest punishment; no excuse could shield

them, if the colonel only suspected any want of attention to his horses—a

supposition which he frequently indulged, and one which, of course, made the

office of old and young Barney a very trying one. They never knew when they

were safe from punishment. They were frequently whipped when least deserving,

and escaped whipping when most deserving it. Every thing depended upon the

looks of the horses, and the state of Colonel Lloyd’s own mind when his

horses were brought to him for use. If a horse did not move fast enough, or

hold his head high enough, it was owing to some fault of his keepers. It was

painful to stand near the stable-door, and hear the various complaints against

the keepers when a horse was taken out for use. “This horse has not had

proper attention. He has not been sufficiently rubbed and curried, or he has

not been properly fed; his food was too wet or too dry; he got it too soon or

too late; he was too hot or too cold; he had too much hay, and not enough of

grain; or he had too much grain, and not enough of hay; instead of old

Barney’s attending to the horse, he had very improperly left it to his

son.” To all these complaints, no matter how unjust, the slave must

answer never a word. Colonel Lloyd could not brook any contradiction from a

slave. When he spoke, a slave must stand, listen, and tremble; and such was

literally the case. I have seen Colonel Lloyd make old Barney, a man between

fifty and sixty years of age, uncover his bald head, kneel down upon the cold,

damp ground, and receive upon his naked and toil-worn shoulders more than

thirty lashes at the time. Colonel Lloyd had three sons—Edward, Murray,

and Daniel,—and three sons-in-law, Mr. Winder, Mr. Nicholson, and Mr.

Lowndes. All of these lived at the Great House Farm, and enjoyed the luxury of

whipping the servants when they pleased, from old Barney down to William

Wilkes, the coach-driver. I have seen Winder make one of the house-servants

stand off from him a suitable distance to be touched with the end of his whip,

and at every stroke raise great ridges upon his back.


To describe the wealth of Colonel Lloyd would be almost equal to describing the

riches of Job. He kept from ten to fifteen house-servants. He was said to own a

thousand slaves, and I think this estimate quite within the truth. Colonel

Lloyd owned so many that he did not know them when he saw them; nor did all the

slaves of the out-farms know him. It is reported of him, that, while riding

along the road one day, he met a colored man, and addressed him in the usual

manner of speaking to colored people on the public highways of the south:

“Well, boy, whom do you belong to?” “To Colonel Lloyd,”

replied the slave. “Well, does the colonel treat you well?”

“No, sir,” was the ready reply. “What, does he work you too

hard?” “Yes, sir.” “Well, don’t he give you

enough to eat?” “Yes, sir, he gives me enough, such as it

is.”


The colonel, after ascertaining where the slave belonged, rode on; the man also

went on about his business, not dreaming that he had been conversing with his

master. He thought, said, and heard nothing more of the matter, until two or

three weeks afterwards. The poor man was then informed by his overseer that,

for having found fault with his master, he was now to be sold to a Georgia

trader. He was immediately chained and handcuffed; and thus, without a

moment’s warning, he was snatched away, and forever sundered, from his

family and friends, by a hand more unrelenting than death. This is the penalty

of telling the truth, of telling the simple truth, in answer to a series of

plain questions.


It is partly in consequence of such facts, that slaves, when inquired of as to

their condition and the character of their masters, almost universally say they

are contented, and that their masters are kind. The slaveholders have been

known to send in spies among their slaves, to ascertain their views and

feelings in regard to their condition. The frequency of this has had the effect

to establish among the slaves the maxim, that a still tongue makes a wise head.

They suppress the truth rather than take the consequences of telling it, and in

so doing prove themselves a part of the human family. If they have any thing to

say of their masters, it is generally in their masters’ favor, especially

when speaking to an untried man. I have been frequently asked, when a slave, if

I had a kind master, and do not remember ever to have given a negative answer;

nor did I, in pursuing this course, consider myself as uttering what was

absolutely false; for I always measured the kindness of my master by the

standard of kindness set up among slaveholders around us. Moreover, slaves are

like other people, and imbibe prejudices quite common to others. They think

their own better than that of others. Many, under the influence of this

prejudice, think their own masters are better than the masters of other slaves;

and this, too, in some cases, when the very reverse is true. Indeed, it is not

uncommon for slaves even to fall out and quarrel among themselves about the

relative goodness of their masters, each contending for the superior goodness

of his own over that of the others. At the very same time, they mutually

execrate their masters when viewed separately. It was so on our plantation.

When Colonel Lloyd’s slaves met the slaves of Jacob Jepson, they seldom

parted without a quarrel about their masters; Colonel Lloyd’s slaves

contending that he was the richest, and Mr. Jepson’s slaves that he was

the smartest, and most of a man. Colonel Lloyd’s slaves would boast his

ability to buy and sell Jacob Jepson. Mr. Jepson’s slaves would boast his

ability to whip Colonel Lloyd. These quarrels would almost always end in a

fight between the parties, and those that whipped were supposed to have gained

the point at issue. They seemed to think that the greatness of their masters

was transferable to themselves. It was considered as being bad enough to be a

slave; but to be a poor man’s slave was deemed a disgrace indeed!


 CHAPTER IV


Mr. Hopkins remained but a short time in the office of overseer. Why his career

was so short, I do not know, but suppose he lacked the necessary severity to

suit Colonel Lloyd. Mr. Hopkins was succeeded by Mr. Austin Gore, a man

possessing, in an eminent degree, all those traits of character indispensable

to what is called a first-rate overseer. Mr. Gore had served Colonel Lloyd, in

the capacity of overseer, upon one of the out-farms, and had shown himself

worthy of the high station of overseer upon the home or Great House Farm.


Mr. Gore was proud, ambitious, and persevering. He was artful, cruel, and

obdurate. He was just the man for such a place, and it was just the place for

such a man. It afforded scope for the full exercise of all his powers, and he

seemed to be perfectly at home in it. He was one of those who could torture the

slightest look, word, or gesture, on the part of the slave, into impudence, and

would treat it accordingly. There must be no answering back to him; no

explanation was allowed a slave, showing himself to have been wrongfully

accused. Mr. Gore acted fully up to the maxim laid down by

slaveholders,—“It is better that a dozen slaves should suffer under

the lash, than that the overseer should be convicted, in the presence of the

slaves, of having been at fault.” No matter how innocent a slave might

be—it availed him nothing, when accused by Mr. Gore of any misdemeanor.

To be accused was to be convicted, and to be convicted was to be punished; the

one always following the other with immutable certainty. To escape punishment

was to escape accusation; and few slaves had the fortune to do either, under

the overseership of Mr. Gore. He was just proud enough to demand the most

debasing homage of the slave, and quite servile enough to crouch, himself, at

the feet of the master. He was ambitious enough to be contented with nothing

short of the highest rank of overseers, and persevering enough to reach the

height of his ambition. He was cruel enough to inflict the severest punishment,

artful enough to descend to the lowest trickery, and obdurate enough to be

insensible to the voice of a reproving conscience. He was, of all the

overseers, the most dreaded by the slaves. His presence was painful; his eye

flashed confusion; and seldom was his sharp, shrill voice heard, without

producing horror and trembling in their ranks.


Mr. Gore was a grave man, and, though a young man, he indulged in no jokes,

said no funny words, seldom smiled. His words were in perfect keeping with his

looks, and his looks were in perfect keeping with his words. Overseers will

sometimes indulge in a witty word, even with the slaves; not so with Mr. Gore.

He spoke but to command, and commanded but to be obeyed; he dealt sparingly

with his words, and bountifully with his whip, never using the former where the

latter would

ne oil.
For other breakfast things, George suggested eggs and bacon,

which were easy to cook, cold meat, tea, bread and butter, and

jam.  For lunch, he said, we could have biscuits, cold meat,

bread and butter, and jam—but no cheese. 

Cheese, like oil, makes too much of itself.  It wants the

whole boat to itself.  It goes through the hamper, and gives

a cheesy flavour to everything else there.  You can’t

tell whether you are eating apple-pie or German sausage, or

strawberries and cream.  It all seems cheese.  There is

too much odour about cheese.
I remember a friend of mine, buying a couple of cheeses at

Liverpool.  Splendid cheeses they were, ripe and mellow, and

with a two hundred horse-power scent about them that might have

been warranted to carry three miles, and knock a man over at two

hundred yards.  I was in Liverpool at the time, and my

friend said that if I didn’t mind he would get me to take

them back with me to London, as he should not be coming up for a

day or two himself, and he did not think the cheeses ought to be

kept much longer.
“Oh, with pleasure, dear boy,” I replied,

“with pleasure.”
I called for the cheeses, and took them away in a cab. 

It was a ramshackle affair, dragged along by a knock-kneed,

broken-winded somnambulist, which his owner, in a moment of

enthusiasm, during conversation, referred to as a horse.  I

put the cheeses on the top, and we started off at a shamble that

would have done credit to the swiftest steam-roller ever built,

and all went merry as a funeral bell, until we turned the

corner.  There, the wind carried a whiff from the cheeses

full on to our steed.  It woke him up, and, with a snort of

terror, he dashed off at three miles an hour.  The wind

still blew in his direction, and before we reached the end of the

street he was laying himself out at the rate of nearly four miles

an hour, leaving the cripples and stout old ladies simply

nowhere.
It took two porters as well as the driver to hold him in at

the station; and I do not think they would have done it, even

then, had not one of the men had the presence of mind to put a

handkerchief over his nose, and to light a bit of brown

paper.
I took my ticket, and marched proudly up the platform, with my

cheeses, the people falling back respectfully on either

side.  The train was crowded, and I had to get into a

carriage where there were already seven other people.  One

crusty old gentleman objected, but I got in, notwithstanding;

and, putting my cheeses upon the rack, squeezed down with a

pleasant smile, and said it was a warm day.
A few moments passed, and then the old gentleman began to

fidget.
“Very close in here,” he said.
“Quite oppressive,” said the man next him.
And then they both began sniffing, and, at the third sniff,

they caught it right on the chest, and rose up without another

word and went out.  And then a stout lady got up, and said

it was disgraceful that a respectable married woman should be

harried about in this way, and gathered up a bag and eight

parcels and went.  The remaining four passengers sat on for

a while, until a solemn-looking man in the corner, who, from his

dress and general appearance, seemed to belong to the undertaker

class, said it put him in mind of dead baby; and the other three

passengers tried to get out of the door at the same time, and

hurt themselves.


Railway carriage

I smiled at the black gentleman, and said I thought we were

going to have the carriage to ourselves; and he laughed

pleasantly, and said that some people made such a fuss over a

little thing.  But even he grew strangely depressed after we

had started, and so, when we reached Crewe, I asked him to come

and have a drink.  He accepted, and we forced our way into

the buffet, where we yelled, and stamped, and waved our umbrellas

for a quarter of an hour; and then a young lady came, and asked

us if we wanted anything.
“What’s yours?” I said, turning to my

friend.
“I’ll have half-a-crown’s worth of brandy,

neat, if you please, miss,” he responded.
And he went off quietly after he had drunk it and got into

another carriage, which I thought mean.
From Crewe I had the compartment to myself, though the train

was crowded.  As we drew up at the different stations, the

people, seeing my empty carriage, would rush for it. 

“Here y’ are, Maria; come along, plenty of

room.”  “All right, Tom; we’ll get in

here,” they would shout.  And they would run along,

carrying heavy bags, and fight round the door to get in

first.  And one would open the door and mount the steps, and

stagger back into the arms of the man behind him; and they would

all come and have a sniff, and then droop off and squeeze into

other carriages, or pay the difference and go first.
From Euston, I took the cheeses down to my friend’s

house.  When his wife came into the room she smelt round for

an instant.  Then she said:
“What is it?  Tell me the worst.”
I said:
“It’s cheeses.  Tom bought them in Liverpool,

and asked me to bring them up with me.”
And I added that I hoped she understood that it had nothing to

do with me; and she said that she was sure of that, but that she

would speak to Tom about it when he came back.
My friend was detained in Liverpool longer than he expected;

and, three days later, as he hadn’t returned home, his wife

called on me.  She said:
“What did Tom say about those cheeses?”
I replied that he had directed they were to be kept in a moist

place, and that nobody was to touch them.
She said:
“Nobody’s likely to touch them.  Had he smelt

them?”
I thought he had, and added that he seemed greatly attached to

them.
“You think he would be upset,” she queried,

“if I gave a man a sovereign to take them away and bury

them?”
I answered that I thought he would never smile again.
An idea struck her.  She said:
“Do you mind keeping them for him?  Let me send

them round to you.”
“Madam,” I replied, “for myself I like the

smell of cheese, and the journey the other day with them from

Liverpool I shall ever look back upon as a happy ending to a

pleasant holiday.  But, in this world, we must consider

others.  The lady under whose roof I have the honour of

residing is a widow, and, for all I know, possibly an orphan

too.  She has a strong, I may say an eloquent, objection to

being what she terms ‘put upon.’  The presence

of your husband’s cheeses in her house she would, I

instinctively feel, regard as a ‘put upon’; and it

shall never be said that I put upon the widow and the

orphan.”
“Very well, then,” said my friend’s wife,

rising, “all I have to say is, that I shall take the

children and go to an hotel until those cheeses are eaten. 

I decline to live any longer in the same house with

them.”
She kept her word, leaving the place in charge of the

charwoman, who, when asked if she could stand the smell, replied,

“What smell?” and who, when taken close to the

cheeses and told to sniff hard, said she could detect a faint

odour of melons.  It was argued from this that little injury

could result to the woman from the atmosphere, and she was

left.
The hotel bill came to fifteen guineas; and my friend, after

reckoning everything up, found that the cheeses had cost him

eight-and-sixpence a pound.  He said he dearly loved a bit

of cheese, but it was beyond his means; so he determined to get

rid of them.  He threw them into the canal; but had to fish

them out again, as the bargemen complained.  They said it

made them feel quite faint.  And, after that, he took them

one dark night and left them in the parish mortuary.  But

the coroner discovered them, and made a fearful fuss.
He said it was a plot to deprive him of his living by waking

up the corpses.
My friend got rid of them, at last, by taking them down to a

sea-side town, and burying them on the beach.  It gained the

place quite a reputation.  Visitors said they had never

noticed before how strong the air was, and weak-chested and

consumptive people used to throng there for years afterwards.
Fond as I am of cheese, therefore, I hold that George was

right in declining to take any.
“We shan’t want any tea,” said George

(Harris’s face fell at this); “but we’ll have a

good round, square, slap-up meal at seven—dinner, tea, and

supper combined.”
Harris grew more cheerful.  George suggested meat and

fruit pies, cold meat, tomatoes, fruit, and green stuff. 

For drink, we took some wonderful sticky concoction of

Harris’s, which you mixed with water and called lemonade,

plenty of tea, and a bottle of whisky, in case, as George said,

we got upset.
It seemed to me that George harped too much on the

getting-upset idea.  It seemed to me the wrong spirit to go

about the trip in.
But I’m glad we took the whisky.
We didn’t take beer or wine.  They are a mistake up

the river.  They make you feel sleepy and heavy.  A

glass in the evening when you are doing a mouch round the town

and looking at the girls is all right enough; but don’t

drink when the sun is blazing down on your head, and you’ve

got hard work to do.
We made a list of the things to be taken, and a pretty lengthy

one it was, before we parted that evening.  The next day,

which was Friday, we got them all together, and met in the

evening to pack.  We got a big Gladstone for the clothes,

and a couple of hampers for the victuals and the cooking

utensils.  We moved the table up against the window, piled

everything in a heap in the middle of the floor, and sat round

and looked at it.
I said I’d pack.
I rather pride myself on my packing.  Packing is one of

those many things that I feel I know more about than any other

person living.  (It surprises me myself, sometimes, how many

of these subjects there are.)  I impressed the fact upon

George and Harris, and told them that they had better leave the

whole matter entirely to me.  They fell into the suggestion

with a readiness that had something uncanny about it. 

George put on a pipe and spread himself over the easy-chair, and

Harris cocked his legs on the table and lit a cigar.
This was hardly what I intended.  What I had meant, of

course, was, that I should boss the job, and that Harris and

George should potter about under my directions, I pushing them

aside every now and then with, “Oh,

you—!”  “Here, let me do it.” 

“There you are, simple enough!”—really teaching

them, as you might say.  Their taking it in the way they did

irritated me.  There is nothing does irritate me more than

seeing other people sitting about doing nothing when I’m

working.
I lived with a man once who used to make me mad that

way.  He would loll on the sofa and watch me doing things by

the hour together, following me round the room with his eyes,

wherever I went.  He said it did him real good to look on at

me, messing about.  He said it made him feel that life was

not an idle dream to be gaped and yawned through, but a noble

task, full of duty and stern work.  He said he often

wondered now how he could have gone on before he met me, never

having anybody to look at while they worked.
Now, I’m not like that.  I can’t sit still

and see another man slaving and working.  I want to get up

and superintend, and walk round with my hands in my pockets, and

tell him what to do.  It is my energetic nature.  I

can’t help it.
However, I did not say anything, but started the

packing.  It seemed a longer job than I had thought it was

going to be; but I got the bag finished at last, and I sat on it

and strapped it.
“Ain’t you going to put the boots in?” said

Harris.
And I looked round, and found I had forgotten them. 

That’s just like Harris.  He couldn’t have said

a word until I’d got the bag shut and strapped, of

course.  And George laughed—one of those irritating,

senseless, chuckle-headed, crack-jawed laughs of his.  They

do make me so wild.
I opened the bag and packed the boots in; and then, just as I

was going to close it, a horrible idea occurred to me.  Had

I packed my tooth-brush?  I don’t know how it is, but

I never do know whether I’ve packed my tooth-brush.
My tooth-brush is a thing that haunts me when I’m

travelling, and makes my life a misery.  I dream that I

haven’t packed it, and wake up in a cold perspiration, and

get out of bed and hunt for it.  And, in the morning, I pack

it before I have used it, and have to unpack again to get it, and

it is always the last thing I turn out of the bag; and then I

repack and forget it, and have to rush upstairs for it at the

last moment and carry it to the railway station, wrapped up in my

pocket-handkerchief.


Boot
Of course I had to turn every mortal thing out now, and, of

course, I could not find it.  I rummaged the things up into

much the same state that they must have been before the world was

created, and when chaos reigned.  Of course, I found

George’s and Harris’s eighteen times over, but I

couldn’t find my own.  I put the things back one by

one, and held everything up and shook it.  Then I found it

inside a boot.  I repacked once more.
When I had finished, George asked if the soap was in.  I

said I didn’t care a hang whether the soap was in or

whether it wasn’t; and I slammed the bag to and strapped

it, and found that I had packed my tobacco-pouch in it, and had

to re-open it.  It got shut up finally at 10.05 p.m., and

then there remained the hampers to do.  Harris said that we

should be wanting to start in less than twelve hours’ time,

and thought that he and George had better do the rest; and I

agreed and sat down, and they had a go.
They began in a light-hearted spirit, evidently intending to

show me how to do it.  I made no comment; I only

waited.  When George is hanged, Harris will be the worst

packer in this world; and I looked at the piles of plates and

cups, and kettles, and bottles and jars, and pies, and stoves,

and cakes, and tomatoes, &c., and felt that the thing would

soon become exciting.
It did.  They started with breaking a cup.  That was

the first thing they did.  They did that just to show you

what they could do, and to get you interested.
Then Harris packed the strawberry jam on top of a tomato and

squashed it, and they had to pick out the tomato with a

teaspoon.
And then it was George’s turn, and he trod on the

butter.  I didn’t say anything, but I came over and

sat on the edge of the table and watched them.  It irritated

them more than anything I could have said.  I felt

that.  It made them nervous and excited, and they stepped on

things, and put things behind them, and then couldn’t find

them when they wanted them; and they packed the pies at the

bottom, and put heavy things on top, and smashed the pies in.
They upset salt over everything, and as for the butter! 

I never saw two men do more with one-and-twopence worth of butter

in my whole life than they did.  After George had got it off

his slipper, they tried to put it in the kettle.  It

wouldn’t go in, and what was in wouldn’t come

out.  They did scrape it out at last, and put it down on a

chair, and Harris sat on it, and it stuck to him, and they went

looking for it all over the room.
“I’ll take my oath I put it down on that

chair,” said George, staring at the empty seat.
“I saw you do it myself, not a minute ago,” said

Harris.
Then they started round the room again looking for it; and

then they met again in the centre, and stared at one another.
“Most extraordinary thing I ever heard of,” said

George.
“So mysterious!” said Harris.
Then George got round at the back of Harris and saw it.
“Why, here it is all the time,” he exclaimed,

indignantly.
“Where?” cried Harris, spinning round.
“Stand still, can’t you!” roared George,

flying after him.
And they got it off, and packed it in the teapot.
Montmorency was in it all, of course. 

Montmorency’s ambition in life, is to get in the way and be

sworn at.  If he can squirm in anywhere where he

particularly is not wanted, and be a perfect nuisance, and make

people mad, and have things thrown at his head, then he feels his

day has not been wasted.
To get somebody to stumble over him, and curse him steadily

for an hour, is his highest aim and object; and, when he has

succeeded in accomplishing this, his conceit becomes quite

unbearable.
He came and sat down on things, just when they were wanted to

be packed; and he laboured under the fixed belief that, whenever

Harris or George reached out their hand for anything, it was his

cold, damp nose that they wanted.  He put his leg into the

jam, and he worried the teaspoons, and he pretended that the

lemons were rats, and got into the hamper and killed three of

them before Harris could land him with the frying-pan.
Harris said I encouraged him.  I didn’t encourage

him.  A dog like that don’t want any

encouragement.  It’s the natural, original sin that is

born in him that makes him do things like that.
The packing was done at 12.50; and Harris sat on the big

hamper, and said he hoped nothing would be found broken. 

George said that if anything was broken it was broken, which

reflection seemed to comfort him.  He also said he was ready

for bed.  We were all ready for bed.  Harris was to

sleep with us that night, and we went upstairs.
We tossed for beds, and Harris had to sleep with me.  He

said:
“Do you prefer the inside or the outside, J.?”
I said I generally preferred to sleep inside a bed.
Harris said it was old.
George said:
“What time shall I wake you fellows?”
Harris said:
“Seven.”
I said:
“No—six,” because I wanted to write some

letters.
Harris and I had a bit of a row over it, but at last split the

difference, and said half-past six.
“Wake us at 6.30, George,” we said.
George made no answer, and we found, on going over, that he

had been asleep for some time; so we placed the bath where he

could tumble into it on getting out in the morning, and went to

bed ourselves.


Luggage with dog on top

CHAPTER V.
Mrs. P. arouses us.—George, the

sluggard.—The “weather forecast”

swindle.—Our luggage.—Depravity of the small

boy.—The people gather round us.—We drive off in

great style, and arrive at Waterloo.—Innocence of South

Western Officials concerning such worldly things as

trains.—We are afloat, afloat in an open boat.


Mrs. Poppets
It was Mrs. Poppets that woke me up next morning.
She said:
“Do you know that it’s nearly nine o’clock,

sir?”
“Nine o’ what?” I cried, starting up.
“Nine o’clock,” she replied, through the

keyhole.  “I thought you was a-oversleeping

yourselves.”
I woke Harris, and told him.  He said:
“I thought you wanted to get up at six?”
“So I did,” I answered; “why didn’t

you wake me?”
“How could I wake you, when you didn’t wake

me?” he retorted.  “Now we shan’t get on

the water till after twelve.  I wonder you take the trouble

to get up at all.”
“Um,” I replied, “lucky for you that I

do.  If I hadn’t woke you, you’d have lain there

for the whole fortnight.”


George snoring
We snarled at one another in this strain for the next few

minutes, when we were interrupted by a defiant snore from

George.  It reminded us, for the first time since our being

called, of his existence.  There he lay—the man who

had wanted to know what time he should wake us—on his back,

with his mouth wide open, and his knee

he could not repress her

delight in doing this little thing which, to an ordinary observer, had no

importance at all.


Hurstwood was charmed by the development of the fact that the girl had

capabilities. There is nothing so inspiring in life as the sight of a

legitimate ambition, no matter how incipient. It gives colour, force, and

beauty to the possessor.


Carrie was now lightened by a touch of this divine afflatus. She drew to

herself commendation from her two admirers which she had not earned. Their

affection for her naturally heightened their perception of what she was trying

to do and their approval of what she did. Her inexperience conserved her own

exuberant fancy, which ran riot with every straw of opportunity, making of it a

golden divining rod whereby the treasure of life was to be discovered.


“Let’s see,” said Hurstwood, “I ought to know some of

the boys in the lodge. I’m an Elk myself.”


“Oh, you mustn’t let him know I told you.”


“That’s so,” said the manager.


“I’d like for you to be there, if you want to come, but I

don’t see how you can unless he asks you.”


“I’ll be there,” said Hurstwood affectionately. “I can

fix it so he won’t know you told me. You leave it to me.”


This interest of the manager was a large thing in itself for the performance,

for his standing among the Elks was something worth talking about. Already he

was thinking of a box with some friends, and flowers for Carrie. He would make

it a dress-suit affair and give the little girl a chance.


Within a day or two, Drouet dropped into the Adams Street resort, and he was at

once spied by Hurstwood. It was at five in the afternoon and the place was

crowded with merchants, actors, managers, politicians, a goodly company of

rotund, rosy figures, silk-hatted, starchy-bosomed, beringed and bescarfpinned

to the queen’s taste. John L. Sullivan, the pugilist, was at one end of

the glittering bar, surrounded by a company of loudly dressed sports, who were

holding a most animated conversation. Drouet came across the floor with a

festive stride, a new pair of tan shoes squeaking audibly at his progress.


“Well, sir,” said Hurstwood, “I was wondering what had become

of you. I thought you had gone out of town again.”


Drouet laughed.


“If you don’t report more regularly we’ll have to cut you off

the list.”


“Couldn’t help it,” said the drummer, “I’ve been

busy.”


They strolled over toward the bar amid the noisy, shifting company of notables.

The dressy manager was shaken by the hand three times in as many minutes.


“I hear your lodge is going to give a performance,” observed

Hurstwood, in the most offhand manner.


“Yes, who told you?”


“No one,” said Hurstwood. “They just sent me a couple of

tickets, which I can have for two dollars. Is it going to be any good?”


“I don’t know,” replied the drummer. “They’ve

been trying to get me to get some woman to take a part.”


“I wasn’t intending to go,” said the manager easily.

“I’ll subscribe, of course. How are things over there?”


“All right. They’re going to fit things up out of the

proceeds.”


“Well,” said the manager, “I hope they make a success of it.

Have another?”


He did not intend to say any more. Now, if he should appear on the scene with a

few friends, he could say that he had been urged to come along. Drouet had a

desire to wipe out the possibility of confusion.


“I think the girl is going to take a part in it,” he said abruptly,

after thinking it over.


“You don’t say so! How did that happen?”


“Well, they were short and wanted me to find them some one. I told

Carrie, and she seems to want to try.”


“Good for her,” said the manager. “It’ll be a real nice

affair. Do her good, too. Has she ever had any experience?”


“Not a bit.”


“Oh, well, it isn’t anything very serious.”


“She’s clever, though,” said Drouet, casting off any

imputation against Carrie’s ability. “She picks up her part quick

enough.”


“You don’t say so!” said the manager.


“Yes, sir; she surprised me the other night. By George, if she

didn’t.”


“We must give her a nice little send-off,” said the manager.

“I’ll look after the flowers.”


Drouet smiled at his good-nature.


“After the show you must come with me and we’ll have a little

supper.”


“I think she’ll do all right,” said Drouet.


“I want to see her. She’s got to do all right. We’ll make

her,” and the manager gave one of his quick, steely half-smiles, which

was a compound of good-nature and shrewdness.


Carrie, meanwhile, attended the first rehearsal. At this performance Mr.

Quincel presided, aided by Mr. Millice, a young man who had some qualifications

of past experience, which were not exactly understood by any one. He was so

experienced and so business-like, however, that he came very near being

rude—failing to remember, as he did, that the individuals he was trying

to instruct were volunteer players and not salaried underlings.


“Now, Miss Madenda,” he said, addressing Carrie, who stood in one

part uncertain as to what move to make, “you don’t want to stand

like that. Put expression in your face. Remember, you are troubled over the

intrusion of the stranger. Walk so,” and he struck out across the Avery

stage in almost drooping manner.


Carrie did not exactly fancy the suggestion, but the novelty of the situation,

the presence of strangers, all more or less nervous, and the desire to do

anything rather than make a failure, made her timid. She walked in imitation of

her mentor as requested, inwardly feeling that there was something strangely

lacking.


“Now, Mrs. Morgan,” said the director to one young married woman

who was to take the part of Pearl, “you sit here. Now, Mr. Bamberger, you

stand here, so. Now, what is it you say?”


“Explain,” said Mr. Bamberger feebly. He had the part of Ray,

Laura’s lover, the society individual who was to waver in his thoughts of

marrying her, upon finding that she was a waif and a nobody by birth.


“How is that—what does your text say?”


“Explain,” repeated Mr. Bamberger, looking intently at his part.


“Yes, but it also says,” the director remarked, “that you are

to look shocked. Now, say it again, and see if you can’t look

shocked.”


“Explain!” demanded Mr. Bamberger vigorously.


“No, no, that won’t do! Say it this

way—explain.”


“Explain,” said Mr. Bamberger, giving a modified imitation.


“That’s better. Now go on.”


“One night,” resumed Mrs. Morgan, whose lines came next,

“father and mother were going to the opera. When they were crossing

Broadway, the usual crowd of children accosted them for alms—”


“Hold on,” said the director, rushing forward, his arm extended.

“Put more feeling into what you are saying.”


Mrs. Morgan looked at him as if she feared a personal assault. Her eye

lightened with resentment.


“Remember, Mrs. Morgan,” he added, ignoring the gleam, but

modifying his manner, “that you’re detailing a pathetic story. You

are now supposed to be telling something that is a grief to you. It requires

feeling, repression, thus: ‘The usual crowd of children accosted them for

alms.’”


“All right,” said Mrs. Morgan.


“Now, go on.”


“As mother felt in her pocket for some change, her fingers touched a cold

and trembling hand which had clutched her purse.”


“Very good,” interrupted the director, nodding his head

significantly.


“A pickpocket! Well!” exclaimed Mr. Bamberger, speaking the lines

that here fell to him.


“No, no, Mr. Bamberger,” said the director, approaching, “not

that way. ‘A pickpocket—well?’ so. That’s the

idea.”


“Don’t you think,” said Carrie weakly, noticing that it had

not been proved yet whether the members of the company knew their lines, let

alone the details of expression, “that it would be better if we just went

through our lines once to see if we know them? We might pick up some

points.”


“A very good idea, Miss Madenda,” said Mr. Quincel, who sat at the

side of the stage, looking serenely on and volunteering opinions which the

director did not heed.


“All right,” said the latter, somewhat abashed, “it might be

well to do it.” Then brightening, with a show of authority,

“Suppose we run right through, putting in as much expression as we

can.”


“Good,” said Mr. Quincel.


“This hand,” resumed Mrs. Morgan, glancing up at Mr. Bamberger and

down at her book, as the lines proceeded, “my mother grasped in her own,

and so tight that a small, feeble voice uttered an exclamation of pain. Mother

looked down, and there beside her was a little ragged girl.”


“Very good,” observed the director, now hopelessly idle.


“The thief!” exclaimed Mr. Bamberger.


“Louder,” put in the director, finding it almost impossible to keep

his hands off.


“The thief!” roared poor Bamberger.


“Yes, but a thief hardly six years old, with a face like an

angel’s. ‘Stop,’ said my mother. ‘What are you

doing?’


“‘Trying to steal,’ said the child.


“‘Don’t you know that it is wicked to do so?’ asked my

father.


“‘No,’ said the girl, ‘but it is dreadful to be

hungry.’


“‘Who told you to steal?’ asked my mother.


“‘She—there,’ said the child, pointing to a squalid

woman in a doorway opposite, who fled suddenly down the street. ‘That is

old Judas,’ said the girl.”


Mrs. Morgan read this rather flatly, and the director was in despair. He

fidgeted around, and then went over to Mr. Quincel.


“What do you think of them?” he asked.


“Oh, I guess we’ll be able to whip them into shape,” said the

latter, with an air of strength under difficulties.


“I don’t know,” said the director. “That fellow

Bamberger strikes me as being a pretty poor shift for a lover.”


“He’s all we’ve got,” said Quincel, rolling up his

eyes. “Harrison went back on me at the last minute. Who else can we

get?”


“I don’t know,” said the director. “I’m afraid

he’ll never pick up.”


At this moment Bamberger was exclaiming, “Pearl, you are joking with

me.”


“Look at that now,” said the director, whispering behind his hand.

“My Lord! what can you do with a man who drawls out a sentence like

that?”


“Do the best you can,” said Quincel consolingly.


The rendition ran on in this wise until it came to where Carrie, as Laura,

comes into the room to explain to Ray, who, after hearing Pearl’s

statement about her birth, had written the letter repudiating her, which,

however, he did not deliver. Bamberger was just concluding the words of Ray,

“I must go before she returns. Her step! Too late,” and was

cramming the letter in his pocket, when she began sweetly with:


“Ray!”


“Miss—Miss Courtland,” Bamberger faltered weakly.


Carrie looked at him a moment and forgot all about the company present. She

began to feel the part, and summoned an indifferent smile to her lips, turning

as the lines directed and going to a window, as if he were not present. She did

it with a grace which was fascinating to look upon.


“Who is that woman?” asked the director, watching Carrie in her

little scene with Bamberger.


“Miss Madenda,” said Quincel.


“I know her name,” said the director, “but what does she

do?”


“I don’t know,” said Quincel. “She’s a friend of

one of our members.”


“Well, she’s got more gumption than any one I’ve seen here so

far—seems to take an interest in what she’s doing.”


“Pretty, too, isn’t she?” said Quincel.


The director strolled away without answering.


In the second scene, where she was supposed to face the company in the

ball-room, she did even better, winning the smile of the director, who

volunteered, because of her fascination for him, to come over and speak with

her.


“Were you ever on the stage?” he asked insinuatingly.


“No,” said Carrie.


“You do so well, I thought you might have had some experience.”


Carrie only smiled consciously.


He walked away to listen to Bamberger, who was feebly spouting some ardent

line.


Mrs. Morgan saw the drift of things and gleamed at Carrie with envious and

snapping black eyes.


“She’s some cheap professional,” she gave herself the

satisfaction of thinking, and scorned and hated her accordingly.


The rehearsal ended for one day, and Carrie went home feeling that she had

acquitted herself satisfactorily. The words of the director were ringing in her

ears, and she longed for an opportunity to tell Hurstwood. She wanted him to

know just how well she was doing. Drouet, too, was an object for her

confidences. She could hardly wait until he should ask her, and yet she did not

have the vanity to bring it up. The drummer, however, had another line of

thought to-night, and her little experience did not appeal to him as important.

He let the conversation drop, save for what she chose to recite without

solicitation, and Carrie was not good at that. He took it for granted that she

was doing very well and he was relieved of further worry. Consequently he threw

Carrie into repression, which was irritating. She felt his indifference keenly

and longed to see Hurstwood. It was as if he were now the only friend she had

on earth. The next morning Drouet was interested again, but the damage had been

done.


She got a pretty letter from the manager, saying that by the time she got it he

would be waiting for her in the park. When she came, he shone upon her as the

morning sun.


“Well, my dear,” he asked, “how did you come out?”


“Well enough,” she said, still somewhat reduced after Drouet.


“Now, tell me just what you did. Was it pleasant?”


Carrie related the incidents of the rehearsal, warming up as she proceeded.


“Well, that’s delightful,” said Hurstwood. “I’m

so glad. I must get over there to see you. When is the next rehearsal?”


“Tuesday,” said Carrie, “but they don’t allow

visitors.”


“I imagine I could get in,” said Hurstwood significantly.


She was completely restored and delighted by his consideration, but she made

him promise not to come around.


“Now, you must do your best to please me,” he said encouragingly.

“Just remember that I want you to succeed. We will make the performance

worth while. You do that now.”


“I’ll try,” said Carrie, brimming with affection and

enthusiasm.


“That’s the girl,” said Hurstwood fondly. “Now,

remember,” shaking an affectionate finger at her, “your

best.”


“I will,” she answered, looking back.


The whole earth was brimming sunshine that morning. She tripped along, the

clear sky pouring liquid blue into her soul. Oh, blessed are the children of

endeavour in this, that they try and are hopeful. And blessed also are they

who, knowing, smile and approve.


Chapter XVIII. JUST OVER THE BORDER: A HAIL AND FAREWELL


By the evening of the 16th the subtle hand of Hurstwood had made itself

apparent. He had given the word among his friends—and they were many and

influential—that here was something which they ought to attend, and, as a

consequence, the sale of tickets by Mr. Quincel, acting for the lodge, had been

large. Small four-line notes had appeared in all of the daily newspapers. These

he had arranged for by the aid of one of his newspaper friends on the

“Times,” Mr. Harry McGarren, the managing editor.


“Say, Harry,” Hurstwood said to him one evening, as the latter

stood at the bar drinking before wending his belated way homeward, “you

can help the boys out, I guess.”


“What is it?” said McGarren, pleased to be consulted by the opulent

manager.


“The Custer Lodge is getting up a little entertainment for their own

good, and they’d like a little newspaper notice. You know what I

mean—a squib or two saying that it’s going to take place.”


“Certainly,” said McGarren, “I can fix that for you,

George.”


At the same time Hurstwood kept himself wholly in the background. The members

of Custer Lodge could scarcely understand why their little affair was taking so

well. Mr. Harry Quincel was looked upon as quite a star for this sort of work.


By the time the 16th had arrived Hurstwood’s friends had rallied like

Romans to a senator’s call. A well-dressed, good-natured,

flatteringly-inclined audience was assured from the moment he thought of

assisting Carrie.


That little student had mastered her part to her own satisfaction, much as she

trembled for her fate when she should once face the gathered throng, behind the

glare of the footlights. She tried to console herself with the thought that a

score of other persons, men and women, were equally tremulous concerning the

outcome of their efforts, but she could not disassociate the general danger

from her own individual liability. She feared that she would forget her lines,

that she might be unable to master the feeling which she now felt concerning

her own movements in the play. At times she wished that she had never gone into

the affair; at others, she trembled lest she should be paralysed with fear and

stand white and gasping, not knowing what to say and spoiling the entire

performance.


In the matter of the company, Mr. Bamberger had disappeared. That hopeless

example had fallen under the lance of the director’s criticism. Mrs.

Morgan was still present, but envious and determined, if for nothing more than

spite, to do as well as Carrie at least. A loafing professional had been called

in to assume the role of Ray, and, while he was a poor stick of his kind, he

was not troubled by any of those qualms which attack the spirit of those who

have never faced an audience. He swashed about (cautioned though he was to

maintain silence concerning his past theatrical relationships) in such a

self-confident manner that he was like to convince every one of his identity by

mere matter of circumstantial evidence.


“It is so easy,” he said to Mrs. Morgan, in the usual affected

stage voice. “An audience would be the last thing to trouble me.

It’s the spirit of the part, you know, that is difficult.”


Carrie disliked his appearance, but she was too much the actress not to swallow

his qualities with complaisance, seeing that she must suffer his fictitious

love for the evening.


At six she was ready to go. Theatrical paraphernalia had been provided over and

above her care. She had practised her make-up in the morning, had rehearsed and

arranged her material for the evening by one o’clock, and had gone home

to have a final look at her part, waiting for the evening to come.


On this occasion the lodge sent a carriage. Drouet rode with her as far as the

door, and then went about the neighbouring stores, looking for some good

cigars. The little actress marched nervously into her dressing-room and began

that painfully anticipated matter of make-up which was to transform her, a

simple maiden, to Laura, The Belle of Society.


The flare of the gas-jets, the open trunks, suggestive of travel and display,

the scattered contents of the make-up box—rouge, pearl powder, whiting,

burnt cork, India ink, pencils for the eye-lids, wigs, scissors,

looking-glasses, drapery—in short, all the nameless paraphernalia of

disguise, have a remarkable atmosphere of their own. Since her arrival in the

city many things had influenced her, but always in a far-removed manner. This

new atmosphere was more friendly. It was wholly unlike the great br

g-pails—lumps of fat as

big as yer thumb, Mister Oak! I’ve never seed such splendid large knobs

of fat before in the days of my life—they never used to be bigger than a

horse-bean. And there was a great black crock upon the brandish with his legs

a-sticking out, but I don’t know what was in within.”


“And there’s two bushels of biffins for apple-pies,” said

Maryann.


“Well, I hope to do my duty by it all,” said Joseph Poorgrass, in a

pleasant, masticating manner of anticipation. “Yes; victuals and drink is

a cheerful thing, and gives nerves to the nerveless, if the form of words may

be used. ’Tis the gospel of the body, without which we perish, so to

speak it.”


CHAPTER XXIII.

EVENTIDE—A SECOND DECLARATION


For the shearing-supper a long table was placed on the grass-plot beside the

house, the end of the table being thrust over the sill of the wide

parlour-window and a foot or two into the room. Miss Everdene sat inside the

window, facing down the table. She was thus at the head without mingling with

the men.


This evening Bathsheba was unusually excited, her red cheeks and lips

contrasting lustrously with the mazy skeins of her shadowy hair. She seemed to

expect assistance, and the seat at the bottom of the table was at her request

left vacant until after they had begun the meal. She then asked Gabriel to take

the place and the duties appertaining to that end, which he did with great

readiness.


At this moment Mr. Boldwood came in at the gate, and crossed the green to

Bathsheba at the window. He apologized for his lateness: his arrival was

evidently by arrangement.


“Gabriel,” said she, “will you move again, please, and let

Mr. Boldwood come there?”


Oak moved in silence back to his original seat.


The gentleman-farmer was dressed in cheerful style, in a new coat and white

waistcoat, quite contrasting with his usual sober suits of grey. Inwardy, too,

he was blithe, and consequently chatty to an exceptional degree. So also was

Bathsheba now that he had come, though the uninvited presence of Pennyways, the

bailiff who had been dismissed for theft, disturbed her equanimity for a while.


Supper being ended, Coggan began on his own private account, without reference

to listeners:—


“I’ve lost my love, and I care not,

I’ve lost my love, and I care not;

    I shall soon have another

    That’s better than t’other;

I’ve lost my love, and I care not.”


This melody, when concluded, was received with a silently appreciative gaze at

the table, implying that the performance, like a work by those established

authors who are independent of notices in the papers, was a well-known delight

which required no applause.


“Now, Master Poorgrass, your song,” said Coggan.


“I be all but a shadder, and the gift is wanting in me,” said

Joseph, diminishing himself.


“Nonsense; wou’st never be so ungrateful,

Joseph—never!” said Coggan, expressing hurt feelings by an

inflection of voice. “And mistress is looking hard at ye, as much as to

say, ‘Sing at once, Joseph Poorgrass.’”


“Faith, so she is; well, I must suffer it!… How do I bear her gaze? Do I

blush prodigally? Just eye my features, and see if the tell-tale blood

overpowers me much, neighbours.”


“No, yer blushes be quite reasonable,” said Coggan.


“A very reasonable depth indeed,” testified Oak.


“I always tries to keep my colours from rising when a beauty’s eyes

get fixed on me,” said Joseph, diffidently; “but if so be

’tis willed they do, they must.”


“Now, Joseph, your song, please,” said Bathsheba, from the window.


“Well, really, ma’am,” he replied, in a yielding tone,

“I don’t know what to say. It would be a poor plain ballet of my

own composure.”


“Hear, hear!” said the supper-party.


Poorgrass, thus assured, trilled forth a flickering yet commendable piece of

sentiment, the tune of which consisted of the key-note and another, the latter

being the sound chiefly dwelt upon. This was so successful that he rashly

plunged into a second in the same breath, after a few false starts:—


“I sow′-ed th′-e. . . . .

I sow′-ed. . . . .

I sow′-ed the′-e seeds′ of′ love′,

    I-it was′ all′ i′-in the′-e spring′,

I-in A′-pril′, Ma′-ay, a′-nd sun′-ny′ June′,

    When sma′-all bi′-irds they′ do′ sing′.”


“Well put out of hand,” said Coggan, at the end of the verse.

“‘They do sing’ was a very taking paragraph.”


“Ay; and there was a pretty place at ‘seeds of love,’ and

’twas well let out. Though ‘love’ is a nasty high corner when

a man’s voice is getting crazed. Next verse, Master Poorgrass.”


But during this rendering young Bob Coggan evinced one of those anomalies which

will afflict little people when other persons are particularly serious, and, in

trying to check his laughter, pushed down his throat as much of the tablecloth

as he could get hold of, when after continuing hermetically sealed for a short

time, his mirth ultimately burst out through his nose. Joseph perceived it, and

with hectic cheeks of indignation instantly ceased singing. Coggan boxed

Bob’s ears immediately.


“Go on, Joseph—go on, and never mind the young scamp,” said

Coggan. “’Tis a very catching ballet. Now then again—the next

bar; I’ll help ye to flourish up the shrill notes where yer wind is

rather wheezy:—


“Oh the wi′-il-lo′-ow tree’ will′ twist′,

And the wil′-low′ tre′-ee wi′ill twine′.”


But the singer could not be set going again. Bob Coggan was sent home for his

ill manners, and tranquility was restored by Jacob Smallbury, who volunteered a

ballad as inclusive and interminable as that with which the worthy toper old

Silenus amused on a similar occasion the swains Chromis and Mnasylus, and other

jolly dogs of his day.


It was still the beaming time of evening, though night was stealthily making

itself visible low down upon the ground, the western lines of light raking the

earth without alighting upon it to any extent, or illuminating the dead levels

at all. The sun had crept round the tree as a last effort before death, and

then began to sink, the shearers’ lower parts becoming steeped in

embrowning twilight, whilst their heads and shoulders were still enjoying day,

lacquered with a yellow of self-sustained brilliancy that seemed inherent

rather than acquired.


The sun went down in an ochreous mist; but they sat, and talked on, and grew as

merry as the gods in Homer’s heaven. Bathsheba still remained enthroned

inside the window, and occupied herself in knitting, from which she sometimes

looked up to view the fading scene outside. The slow twilight expanded and

enveloped them completely before the signs of moving were shown.


Gabriel suddenly missed Farmer Boldwood from his place at the bottom of the

table. How long he had been gone Oak did not know; but he had apparently

withdrawn into the encircling dusk. Whilst he was thinking of this, Liddy

brought candles into the back part of the room overlooking the shearers, and

their lively new flames shone down the table and over the men, and dispersed

among the green shadows behind. Bathsheba’s form, still in its original

position, was now again distinct between their eyes and the light, which

revealed that Boldwood had gone inside the room, and was sitting near her.


Next came the question of the evening. Would Miss Everdene sing to them the

song she always sang so charmingly—“The Banks of Allan

Water”—before they went home?


After a moment’s consideration Bathsheba assented, beckoning to Gabriel,

who hastened up into the coveted atmosphere at once.


“Have you brought your flute?” she whispered.


“Yes, miss.”


“Play to my singing, then.”


She stood up in the window-opening, facing the men, the candles behind her,

Gabriel on her right hand, immediately outside the sash-frame. Boldwood had

drawn up on her left, within the room. Her singing was soft and rather

tremulous at first, but it soon swelled to a steady clearness. Subsequent

events caused one of the verses to be remembered for many months, and even

years, by more than one of those who were gathered there:—


“For his bride a soldier sought her,

    And a winning tongue had he:

On the banks of Allan Water

    None was gay as she!”


[Illustration: ]
SHE STOOD UP IN THE WINDOW-OPENING, FACING THE MEN.


In addition to the dulcet piping of Gabriel’s flute, Boldwood supplied a

bass in his customary profound voice, uttering his notes so softly, however, as

to abstain entirely from making anything like an ordinary duet of the song;

they rather formed a rich unexplored shadow, which threw her tones into relief.

The shearers reclined against each other as at suppers in the early ages of the

world, and so silent and absorbed were they that her breathing could almost be

heard between the bars; and at the end of the ballad, when the last tone

loitered on to an inexpressible close, there arose that buzz of pleasure which

is the attar of applause.


It is scarcely necessary to state that Gabriel could not avoid noting the

farmer’s bearing to-night towards their entertainer. Yet there was

nothing exceptional in his actions beyond what appertained to his time of

performing them. It was when the rest were all looking away that Boldwood

observed her; when they regarded her he turned aside; when they thanked or

praised he was silent; when they were inattentive he murmured his thanks. The

meaning lay in the difference between actions, none of which had any meaning of

themselves; and the necessity of being jealous, which lovers are troubled with,

did not lead Oak to under-estimate these signs.


Bathsheba then wished them good-night, withdrew from the window, and retired to

the back part of the room, Boldwood thereupon closing the sash and the

shutters, and shutting himself inside with her. Oak wandered away under the

quiet and scented trees. Recovering from the softer impressions produced by

Bathsheba’s voice, the shearers rose to leave, Coggan turning to

Pennyways as he pushed back the bench to pass out:—


“I like to give praise where praise is due, and the man deserves

it—that ’a do so,” he remarked, looking at the worthy thief

comprehensively, as if he were the masterpiece of some world-renowned artist.


“I’m sure I should never have believed it if we hadn’t proved

it, so to allude,” said Joseph Poorgrass, “that every cup, every

one of the best knives and forks, and every empty bottle be in their place as

perfect now as at the beginning, and not one stole at all.


“I’m sure I don’t deserve half the praise you give me,”

said the virtuous thief, grimly.


“Well, I’ll say this for Pennyways,” added Coggan,

“that whenever he do really make up his mind to do a noble thing in the

shape of a good action, as I could see by his face he did to-night afore

sitting down, he’s generally able to carry it out. Yes, I’m proud

to say, neighbours, that he’s stole nothing at all.”


“Well, ’tis an honest deed, and we thank ye for it,

Pennyways,” said Joseph; to which opinion the remainder of the company

subscribed unanimously.


At this time of departure, when nothing more was visible of the inside of the

parlour than a thin and still chink of light between the shutters, a passionate

scene was in course of enactment there.


Miss Everdene and Boldwood were alone. Her cheeks had lost a great deal of

their healthful fire from the very seriousness of her position; but her eye was

bright with the excitement of a triumph—though it was a triumph which had

rather been contemplated than desired.


She was standing behind a low arm-chair, from which she had just risen, and he

was kneeling in it—inclining himself over its back towards her, and

holding her hand in both his own. His body moved restlessly, and it was with

what the poet calls a too happy happiness. This unwonted abstraction by love of

all dignity from a man of whom it had ever seemed the chief component, was, in

its distressing incongruity, a pain to her which quenched much of the pleasure

she derived from the proof that she was idolized.


“I will try to love you,” she was saying, in a trembling voice

quite unlike her usual self-confidence. “And if I can believe in any way

that I shall make you a good wife I shall indeed be willing to marry you. But,

Mr. Boldwood, hesitation on so high a matter is honourable in any woman, and I

don’t want to give a solemn promise to-night. I would rather ask you to

wait a few weeks till I can see my situation better.”


“But you have every reason to believe that then…”


“I have every reason to hope that at the end of the five or six weeks,

between this time and harvest, that you say you are going to be away from home,

I shall be able to promise to be your wife,” she said, firmly. “But

remember this distinctly, I don’t promise yet.”


“It is enough; I don’t ask more. I can wait on those dear words.

And now, Miss Everdene, good-night!”


“Good-night,” she said, graciously—almost tenderly; and

Boldwood withdrew with a serene smile.


Bathsheba knew more of him now; he had entirely bared his heart before her,

even until he had almost worn in her eyes the sorry look of a grand bird

without the feathers that make it grand. She had been awestruck at her past

temerity, and was struggling to make amends without thinking whether the sin

quite deserved the penalty she was schooling herself to pay. To have brought

all this about her ears was terrible; but after a while the situation was not

without a fearful joy. The facility with which even the most timid women

sometimes acquire a relish for the dreadful when that is amalgamated with a

little triumph, is marvellous.


CHAPTER XXIV.

THE SAME NIGHT—THE FIR PLANTATION


Among the multifarious duties which Bathsheba had voluntarily imposed upon

herself by dispensing with the services of a bailiff, was the particular one of

looking round the homestead before going to bed, to see that all was right and

safe for the night. Gabriel had almost constantly preceded her in this tour

every evening, watching her affairs as carefully as any specially appointed

officer of surveillance could have done; but this tender devotion was to a

great extent unknown to his mistress, and as much as was known was somewhat

thanklessly received. Women are never tired of bewailing man’s fickleness

in love, but they only seem to snub his constancy.


As watching is best done invisibly, she usually carried a dark lantern in her

hand, and every now and then turned on the light to examine nooks and corners

with the coolness of a metropolitan policeman. This coolness may have owed its

existence not so much to her fearlessness of expected danger as to her freedom

from the suspicion of any; her worst anticipated discovery being that a horse

might not be well bedded, the fowls not all in, or a door not closed.


This night the buildings were inspected as usual, and she went round to the

farm paddock. Here the only sounds disturbing the stillness were steady

munchings of many mouths, and stentorian breathings from all but invisible

noses, ending in snores and puffs like the blowing of bellows slowly. Then the

munching would recommence, when the lively imagination might assist the eye to

discern a group of pink-white nostrils, large as caverns, and very clammy and

humid on their surfaces, not exactly pleasant to the touch until one got used

to them; the mouths beneath having a great partiality for closing upon any

fragment of Bathsheba’s apparel which came within reach of their tongues.

Above each of these a still keener vision suggested a brown forehead and two

staring though not unfriendly eyes, and above all a pair of whitish

crescent-shaped horns like two particularly new moons, an occasional stolid

“moo!” proclaiming beyond the shade of a doubt that these phenomena

were the features and persons of Daisy, Whitefoot, Bonny-lass, Jolly-O, Spot,

Twinkle-eye, etc., etc.—the respectable dairy of Devon cows belonging to

Bathsheba aforesaid.


Her way back to the house was by a path through a young plantation of tapering

firs, which had been planted some years earlier to shelter the premises from

the north wind. By reason of the density of the interwoven foliage it was

gloomy there at cloudless noontide, twilight in the evening, dark as midnight

at dusk, and black as the ninth plague of Egypt at midnight. To describe the

spot is to call it a vast, low, naturally formed hall, the plumy ceiling of

which was supported by slender pillars of living wood, the floor being covered

with a soft dun carpet of dead spikelets and mildewed cones, with a tuft of

grass-blades here and there.


This bit of the path was always the crux of the night’s ramble, though,

before starting, her apprehensions of danger were not vivid enough to lead her

to take a companion. Slipping along here covertly as Time, Bathsheba fancied

she could hear footsteps entering the track at the opposite end. It was

certainly a rustle of footsteps. Her own instantly fell as gently as

snowflakes. She reassured herself by a remembrance that the path was public,

and that the traveller was probably some villager returning home, regretting,

at the same time, that the meeting should be about to occur in the darkest

point of her route, even though only just outside her own door.


The noise approached, came close, and a figure was apparently on the point of

gliding past her when something tugged at her skirt and pinned it forcibly to

the ground. The instantaneous check nearly threw Bathsheba off her balance. In

recovering she struck against warm clothes and buttons.


“A rum start, upon my soul!” said a masculine voice, a foot or so

above her head. “Have I hurt you, mate?”


“No,” said Bathsheba, attempting to shrink a way.


“We have got hitched together somehow, I think.”


“Yes.”


“Are you a woman?”


“Yes.”


“A lady, I should have said.”


“It doesn’t matter.”


“I am a man.”


“Oh!”


Bathsheba softly tugged again, but to no purpose.


“Is that a dark lantern you have? I fancy so,” said the man.


“Yes.”


“If you’ll allow me I’ll open it, and set you free.”


A hand seized the lantern, the door was opened, the rays burst out from their

prison, and Bathsheba beheld her position with astonishment.


The man to whom she was hooked was brilliant in brass and scarlet. He was a

soldier. His sudden appearance was to darkness what the sound of a trumpet is

to silence. Gloom, the genius loci at all times hitherto, was now

totally overthrown, less by the lantern light than by what the lantern lighted.

The contrast of this revelation with her anticipations of some sinister figure

in sombre garb was so great that it had upon her the effect of a fairy

transformation.


It was immediately apparent that the military man’s spur had become

entangled in the gimp which decorated the skirt of her dress. He caught a view

of her face.


“I’ll unfasten you in one moment, miss,” he said, with

new-born gallantry.


“O no—I can do it, thank you,” she hastily replied, and

stooped for the performance.


The unfastening was not such a trifling affair. The rowel of the spur had so

wound itself among the gimp cords in those few moments, that separation was

likely to be a matter of time.


He t

t it was a renovating anguish; he was like a man whom

      intolerable pain has roused from the creeping lethargy of death....

    


      He rose next morning to as fresh a sense of life as though his hour of

      mute communion with Margaret Aubyn had been a more exquisite renewal of

      their earlier meetings. His waking thought was that he must see her again;

      and as consciousness affirmed itself he felt an intense fear of losing the

      sense of her nearness. But she was still close to him; her presence

      remained the sole reality in a world of shadows. All through his working

      hours he was re-living with incredible minuteness every incident of their

      obliterated past; as a man who has mastered the spirit of a foreign tongue

      turns with renewed wonder to the pages his youth has plodded over. In this

      lucidity of retrospection the most trivial detail had its significance,

      and the rapture of recovery was embittered to Glennard by the perception

      of all that he had missed. He had been pitiably, grotesquely stupid; and

      there was irony in the thought that, but for the crisis through which he

      was passing, he might have lived on in complacent ignorance of his loss.

      It was as though she had bought him with her blood....

    


      That evening he and Alexa dined alone. After dinner he followed her to the

      drawing-room. He no longer felt the need of avoiding her; he was hardly

      conscious of her presence. After a few words they lapsed into silence and

      he sat smoking with his eyes on the fire. It was not that he was unwilling

      to talk to her; he felt a curious desire to be as kind as possible; but he

      was always forgetting that she was there. Her full bright presence,

      through which the currents of life flowed so warmly, had grown as tenuous

      as a shadow, and he saw so far beyond her—

    


      Presently she rose and began to move about the room. She seemed to be

      looking for something and he roused himself to ask what she wanted.

    


      “Only the last number of the Horoscope. I thought I’d left it on this

      table.” He said nothing, and she went on: “You haven’t seen it?”

     


      “No,” he returned coldly. The magazine was locked in his desk.

    


      His wife had moved to the mantel-piece. She stood facing him and as he

      looked up he met her tentative gaze. “I was reading an article in it—a

      review of Mrs. Aubyn’s letters,” she added, slowly, with her deep,

      deliberate blush.

    


      Glennard stooped to toss his cigar into the fire. He felt a savage wish

      that she would not speak the other woman’s name; nothing else seemed to

      matter. “You seem to do a lot of reading,” he said.

    


      She still earnestly confronted him. “I was keeping this for you—I

      thought it might interest you,” she said, with an air of gentle

      insistence.

    


      He stood up and turned away. He was sure she knew that he had taken the

      review and he felt that he was beginning to hate her again.

    


      “I haven’t time for such things,” he said, indifferently. As he moved to

      the door he heard her take a precipitate step forward; then she paused and

      sank without speaking into the chair from which he had risen.

    


 


      XI

    

As Glennard, in the raw February sunlight, mounted the road to the

      cemetery, he felt the beatitude that comes with an abrupt cessation of

      physical pain. He had reached the point where self-analysis ceases; the

      impulse that moved him was purely intuitive. He did not even seek a reason

      for it, beyond the obvious one that his desire to stand by Margaret

      Aubyn’s grave was prompted by no attempt at a sentimental reparation, but

      rather by the vague need to affirm in some way the reality of the tie

      between them.

    


      The ironical promiscuity of death had brought Mrs. Aubyn back to share the

      narrow hospitality of her husband’s last lodging; but though Glennard knew

      she had been buried near New York he had never visited her grave. He was

      oppressed, as he now threaded the long avenues, by a chilling vision of

      her return. There was no family to follow her hearse; she had died alone,

      as she had lived; and the “distinguished mourners” who had formed the

      escort of the famous writer knew nothing of the woman they were committing

      to the grave. Glennard could not even remember at what season she had been

      buried; but his mood indulged the fancy that it must have been on some

      such day of harsh sunlight, the incisive February brightness that gives

      perspicuity without warmth. The white avenues stretched before him

      interminably, lined with stereotyped emblems of affliction, as though all

      the platitudes ever uttered had been turned to marble and set up over the

      unresisting dead. Here and there, no doubt, a frigid urn or an insipid

      angel imprisoned some fine-fibred grief, as the most hackneyed words may

      become the vehicle of rare meanings; but for the most part the endless

      alignment of monuments seemed to embody those easy generalizations about

      death that do not disturb the repose of the living. Glennard’s eye, as he

      followed the way indicated to him, had instinctively sought some low mound

      with a quiet headstone. He had forgotten that the dead seldom plan their

      own houses, and with a pang he discovered the name he sought on the

      cyclopean base of a granite shaft rearing its aggressive height at the

      angle of two avenues.

    


      “How she would have hated it!” he murmured.

    


      A bench stood near and he seated himself. The monument rose before him

      like some pretentious uninhabited dwelling; he could not believe that

      Margaret Aubyn lay there. It was a Sunday morning and black figures moved

      among the paths, placing flowers on the frost-bound hillocks. Glennard

      noticed that the neighboring graves had been thus newly dressed; and he

      fancied a blind stir of expectancy through the sod, as though the bare

      mounds spread a parched surface to that commemorative rain. He rose

      presently and walked back to the entrance of the cemetery. Several

      greenhouses stood near the gates, and turning in at the first he asked for

      some flowers.

    


      “Anything in the emblematic line?” asked the anaemic man behind the

      dripping counter.

    


      Glennard shook his head.

    


      “Just cut flowers? This way, then.” The florist unlocked a glass door and

      led him down a moist green aisle. The hot air was choked with the scent of

      white azaleas, white lilies, white lilacs; all the flowers were white;

      they were like a prolongation, a mystical efflorescence, of the long rows

      of marble tombstones, and their perfume seemed to cover an odor of decay.

      The rich atmosphere made Glennard dizzy. As he leaned in the doorpost,

      waiting for the flowers, he had a penetrating sense of Margaret Aubyn’s

      nearness—not the imponderable presence of his inner vision, but a

      life that beat warm in his arms....

    


      The sharp air caught him as he stepped out into it again. He walked back

      and scattered the flowers over the grave. The edges of the white petals

      shrivelled like burnt paper in the cold; and as he watched them the

      illusion of her nearness faded, shrank back frozen.

    


 


      XII

    

The motive of his visit to the cemetery remained undefined save as a final

      effort of escape from his wife’s inexpressive acceptance of his shame. It

      seemed to him that as long as he could keep himself alive to that shame he

      would not wholly have succumbed to its consequences. His chief fear was

      that he should become the creature of his act. His wife’s indifference

      degraded him; it seemed to put him on a level with his dishonor. Margaret

      Aubyn would have abhorred the deed in proportion to her pity for the man.

      The sense of her potential pity drew him back to her. The one woman knew

      but did not understand; the other, it sometimes seemed, understood without

      knowing.

    


      In its last disguise of retrospective remorse, his self-pity affected a

      desire for solitude and meditation. He lost himself in morbid musings, in

      futile visions of what life with Margaret Aubyn might have been. There

      were moments when, in the strange dislocation of his view, the wrong he

      had done her seemed a tie between them.

    


      To indulge these emotions he fell into the habit, on Sunday afternoons, of

      solitary walks prolonged till after dusk. The days were lengthening, there

      was a touch of spring in the air, and his wanderings now usually led him

      to the Park and its outlying regions.

    


      One Sunday, tired of aimless locomotion, he took a cab at the Park gates

      and let it carry him out to the Riverside Drive. It was a gray afternoon

      streaked with east wind. Glennard’s cab advanced slowly, and as he leaned

      back, gazing with absent intentness at the deserted paths that wound under

      bare boughs between grass banks of premature vividness, his attention was

      arrested by two figures walking ahead of him. This couple, who had the

      path to themselves, moved at an uneven pace, as though adapting their gait

      to a conversation marked by meditative intervals. Now and then they

      paused, and in one of these pauses the lady, turning toward her companion,

      showed Glennard the outline of his wife’s profile. The man was Flamel.

    


      The blood rushed to Glennard’s forehead. He sat up with a jerk and pushed

      back the lid in the roof of the hansom; but when the cabman bent down he

      dropped into his seat without speaking. Then, becoming conscious of the

      prolonged interrogation of the lifted lid, he called out—“Turn—drive

      back—anywhere—I’m in a hurry—”

     


      As the cab swung round he caught a last glimpse of the two figures. They

      had not moved; Alexa, with bent head, stood listening.

    


      “My God, my God—” he groaned.

    


      It was hideous—it was abominable—he could not understand it.

      The woman was nothing to him—less than nothing—yet the blood

      hummed in his ears and hung a cloud before him. He knew it was only the

      stirring of the primal instinct, that it had no more to do with his

      reasoning self than any reflex impulse of the body; but that merely

      lowered anguish to disgust. Yes, it was disgust he felt—almost a

      physical nausea. The poisonous fumes of life were in his lungs. He was

      sick, unutterably sick....

    


      He drove home and went to his room. They were giving a little dinner that

      night, and when he came down the guests were arriving. He looked at his

      wife: her beauty was extraordinary, but it seemed to him the beauty of a

      smooth sea along an unlit coast. She frightened him.

    


      He sat late that night in his study. He heard the parlor-maid lock the

      front door; then his wife went upstairs and the lights were put out. His

      brain was like some great empty hall with an echo in it; one thought

      reverberated endlessly.... At length he drew his chair to the table and

      began to write. He addressed an envelope and then slowly re-read what he

      had written.

    

“My dear Flamel,”


      “Many apologies for not sending you sooner the enclosed check, which

      represents the customary percentage on the sale of the Letters.”


      “Trusting you will excuse the oversight,


“Yours truly,     


“Stephen Glennard.”


      He let himself out of the darkened house and dropped the letter in the

      post-box at the corner.

    


      The next afternoon he was detained late at his office, and as he was

      preparing to leave he heard someone asking for him in the outer room. He

      seated himself again and Flamel was shown in.

    


      The two men, as Glennard pushed aside an obstructive chair, had a moment

      to measure each other; then Flamel advanced, and drawing out his

      note-case, laid a slip of paper on the desk.

    


      “My dear fellow, what on earth does this mean?” Glennard recognized his

      check.

    


      “That I was remiss, simply. It ought to have gone to you before.”

     


      Flamel’s tone had been that of unaffected surprise, but at this his accent

      changed and he asked, quickly: “On what ground?”

     


      Glennard had moved away from the desk and stood leaning against the

      calf-backed volumes of the bookcase. “On the ground that you sold Mrs.

      Aubyn’s letters for me, and that I find the intermediary in such cases is

      entitled to a percentage on the sale.”

     


      Flamel paused before answering. “You find, you say. It’s a recent

      discovery?”

     


      “Obviously, from my not sending the check sooner. You see I’m new to the

      business.”

     


      “And since when have you discovered that there was any question of

      business, as far as I was concerned?”

     


      Glennard flushed and his voice rose slightly. “Are you reproaching me for

      not having remembered it sooner?”

     


      Flamel, who had spoken in the rapid repressed tone of a man on the verge

      of anger, stared a moment at this and then, in his natural voice,

      rejoined, good-humoredly, “Upon my soul, I don’t understand you!”

     


      The change of key seemed to disconcert Glennard. “It’s simple enough—”

       he muttered.

    


      “Simple enough—your offering me money in return for a friendly

      service? I don’t know what your other friends expect!”

     


      “Some of my friends wouldn’t have undertaken the job. Those who would have

      done so would probably have expected to be paid.”

     


      He lifted his eyes to Flamel and the two men looked at each other. Flamel

      had turned white and his lips stirred, but he held his temperate note. “If

      you mean to imply that the job was not a nice one, you lay yourself open

      to the retort that you proposed it. But for my part I’ve never seen, I

      never shall see, any reason for not publishing the letters.”

     


      “That’s just it!”

     


      “What—?”

     


      “The certainty of your not seeing was what made me go to you. When a man’s

      got stolen goods to pawn he doesn’t take them to the police-station.”

     


      “Stolen?” Flamel echoed. “The letters were stolen?”

     


      Glennard burst into a coarse laugh. “How much longer do you expect me to

      keep up that pretence about the letters? You knew well enough they were

      written to me.”

     


      Flamel looked at him in silence. “Were they?” he said at length. “I didn’t

      know it.”

     


      “And didn’t suspect it, I suppose,” Glennard sneered.

    


      The other was again silent; then he said, “I may remind you that,

      supposing I had felt any curiosity about the matter, I had no way of

      finding out that the letters were written to you. You never showed me the

      originals.”

     


      “What does that prove? There were fifty ways of finding out. It’s the kind

      of thing one can easily do.”

     


      Flamel glanced at him with contempt. “Our ideas probably differ as to what

      a man can easily do. It would not have been easy for me.”

     


      Glennard’s anger vented itself in the words uppermost in his thought. “It

      may, then, interest you to hear that my wife does know about the letters—has

      known for some months....”

     


      “Ah,” said the other, slowly. Glennard saw that, in his blind clutch at a

      weapon, he had seized the one most apt to wound. Flamel’s muscles were

      under control, but his face showed the undefinable change produced by the

      slow infiltration of poison. Every implication that the words contained

      had reached its mark; but Glennard felt that their obvious intention was

      lost in the anguish of what they suggested. He was sure now that Flamel

      would never have betrayed him; but the inference only made a wider outlet

      for his anger. He paused breathlessly for Flamel to speak.

    


      “If she knows, it’s not through me.” It was what Glennard had waited for.

    


      “Through you, by God? Who said it was through you? Do you suppose I leave

      it to you, or to anybody else, for that matter, to keep my wife informed

      of my actions? I didn’t suppose even such egregious conceit as yours could

      delude a man to that degree!” Struggling for a foothold in the small

      landslide of his dignity, he added, in a steadier tone, “My wife learned

      the facts from me.”

     


      Flamel received this in silence. The other’s outbreak seemed to have

      reinforced his self-control, and when he spoke it was with a deliberation

      implying that his course was chosen. “In that case I understand still less—”

     


      “Still less—?”

     


      “The meaning of this.” He pointed to the check. “When you began to speak I

      supposed you had meant it as a bribe; now I can only infer it was intended

      as a random insult. In either case, here’s my answer.”

     


      He tore the slip of paper in two and tossed the fragments across the desk

      to Glennard. Then he turned and walked out of the office.

    


      Glennard dropped his head on his hands. If he had hoped to restore his

      self-respect by the simple expedient of assailing Flamel’s, the result had

      not justified his expectation. The blow he had struck had blunted the edge

      of his anger, and the unforeseen extent of the hurt inflicted did not

      alter the fact that his weapon had broken in his hands. He saw now that

      his rage against Flamel was only the last projection of a passionate

      self-disgust. This consciousness did not dull his dislike of the man; it

      simply made reprisals ineffectual. Flamel’s unwillingness to quarrel with

      him was the last stage of his abasement.

    


      In the light of this final humiliation his assumption of his wife’s

      indifference struck him as hardly so fatuous as the sentimental

      resuscitation of his past. He had been living in a factitious world

      wherein his emotions were the sycophants of his vanity, and it was with

      instinctive relief that he felt its ruins crash about his head.

    


      It was nearly dark when he left his office, and he walked slowly homeward

      in the complete mental abeyance that follows on such a crisis. He was not

      aware that he was thinking of his wife; yet when he reached his own door

      he found that, in the involuntary readjustment of his vision, 

t be getting angry?”

     


      “Not until I've had the water, at least.”

     


      It was Freckles' turn to laugh. He whipped off his big, floppy straw hat,

      stood uncovered before her, and said, in the sweetest of all the sweet

      tones of his voice: “There's nothing you could be but the Swamp Angel.”

     


      The girl laughed happily.

    


      Once out of her sight, Freckles ran every step of the way to the cabin.

      Mrs. Duncan gave him a small bucket of water, cool from the well. He

      carried it in the crook of his right arm, and a basket filled with bread

      and butter, cold meat, apple pie, and pickles, in his left hand.

    


      “Pickles are kind o' cooling,” said Mrs. Duncan.

    


      Then Freckles ran again.

    


      The Angel was on her knees, reaching for the bucket, as he came up.

    


      “Be drinking slow,” he cautioned her.

    


      “Oh!” she cried, with a long breath of satisfaction. “It's so good! You

      are more than kind to bring it!”

     


      Freckles stood blinking in the dazzling glory of her smile until he

      scarcely could see to lift the basket.

    


      “Mercy!” she exclaimed. “I think I had better be naming you the 'Angel.'

      My Guardian Angel.”

     


      “Yis,” said Freckles. “I look the character every day—but today most

      emphatic!”

     


      “Angels don't go by looks,” laughed the girl. “Your father told us you had

      been scrapping. But he told us why. I'd gladly wear all your cuts and

      bruises if I could do anything that would make my father look as peacocky

      as yours did. He strutted about proper. I never saw anyone look prouder.”

     


      “Did he say he was proud of me?” marveled Freckles.

    


      “He didn't need to,” answered the Angel. “He was radiating pride from

      every pore. Now, have you brought me your dinner?”

     


      “I had my dinner two hours ago,” answered Freckles.

    


      “Honest Injun?” bantered the Angel.

    


      “Honest! I brought that on purpose for you.”

     


      “Well, if you knew how hungry I am, you would know how thankful I am, to

      the dot,” said the Angel.

    


      “Then you be eating,” cried the happy Freckles.

    


      The Angel sat on a big camera, spread the lunch on the carriage seat, and

      divided it in halves. The daintiest parts she could select she carefully

      put back into the basket. The remainder she ate. Again Freckles found her

      of the swamp, for though she was almost ravenous, she managed her food as

      gracefully as his little yellow fellow, and her every movement was easy

      and charming. As he watched her with famished eyes, Freckles told her of

      his birds, flowers, and books, and never realized what he was doing.

    


      He led the horse to a deep pool that he knew of, and the tortured creature

      drank greedily, and lovingly rubbed him with its nose as he wiped down its

      welted body with grass. Suddenly the Angel cried: “There comes the Bird

      Woman!”

     


      Freckles had intended leaving before she came, but now he was glad indeed

      to be there, for a warmer, more worn, and worse bitten creature he never

      had seen. She was staggering under a load of cameras and paraphernalia.

      Freckles ran to her aid. He took all he could carry of her load, stowed it

      in the back of the carriage, and helped her in. The Angel gave her water,

      knelt and unfastened the leggings, bathed her face, and offered the lunch.

    


      Freckles brought the horse. He was not sure about the harness, but the

      Angel knew, and soon they left the swamp. Then he showed them how to reach

      the chicken tree from the outside, indicated a cooler place for the horse,

      and told them how, the next time they came, the Angel could find his room

      while she waited.

    


      The Bird Woman finished her lunch, and lay back, almost too tired to

      speak.

    


      “Were you for getting Little Chicken's picture?” Freckles asked.

    


      “Finely!” she answered. “He posed splendidly. But I couldn't do anything

      with his mother. She will require coaxing.”

     


      “The Lord be praised!” muttered Freckles under his breath.

    


      The Bird Woman began to feel better.

    


      “Why do you call the baby vulture 'Little Chicken'?” she asked, leaning

      toward Freckles in an interested manner.

    


      “'Twas Duncan began it,” said Freckles. “You see, through the fierce cold

      of winter the birds of the swamp were almost starving. It is mighty lonely

      here, and they were all the company I was having. I got to carrying scraps

      and grain down to them. Duncan was that ginerous he was giving me of his

      wheat and corn from his chickens' feed, and he called the birds me swamp

      chickens. Then when these big black fellows came, Mr. McLean said they

      were our nearest kind to some in the old world that they called 'Pharaoh's

      Chickens,' and he called mine 'Freckles' Chickens.'”

     


      “Good enough!” cried the Bird Woman, her splotched purple face lighting

      with interest. “You must shoot something for them occasionally, and I'll

      bring more food when I come. If you will help me keep them until I get my

      series, I'll give you a copy of each study I make, mounted in a book.”

     


      Freckles drew a deep breath.

    


      “I'll be doing me very best,” he promised, and from the deeps he meant it.

    


      “I wonder if that other egg is going to hatch?” mused the Bird Woman. “I

      am afraid not. It should have pipped today. Isn't it a beauty! I never

      before saw either an egg or the young. They are rare this far north.”

     


      “So Mr. McLean said,” answered Freckles.

    


      Before they drove away, the Bird Woman thanked him for his kindness to the

      Angel and to her. She gave him her hand at parting, and Freckles joyfully

      realized that this was going to be another person for him to love. He

      could not remember, after they had driven away, that they even had noticed

      his missing hand, and for the first time in his life he had forgotten it.

    


      When the Bird Woman and the Angel were on the home road, she told of the

      little corner of paradise into which she had strayed and of her new name.

      The Bird Woman looked at the girl and guessed its appropriateness.

    


      “Did you know Mr. McLean had a son?” asked the Angel. “Isn't the little

      accent he has, and the way he twists a sentence, too dear? And isn't it

      too old-fashioned and funny to hear him call his father 'mister'?”

     


      “It sounds too good to be true,” said the Bird Woman, answering the last

      question first. “I am so tired of these present-day young men who

      patronizingly call their fathers 'Dad,' 'Governor,' 'Old Man' and 'Old

      Chap,' that the boy's attitude of respect and deference appealed to me as

      being fine as silk. There must be something rare about that young man.”

     


      She did not find it necessary to tell the Angel that for several years she

      had known the man who so proudly proclaimed himself Freckles' father to be

      a bachelor and a Scotchman. The Bird Woman had a fine way of attending

      strictly to her own business.

    


      Freckles turned to the trail, but he stopped at every wild brier to study

      the pink satin of the petals. She was not of his world, and better than

      any other he knew it; but she might be his Angel, and he was dreaming of

      naught but blind, silent worship. He finished the happiest day of his

      life, and that night he returned to the swamp as if drawn by invisible

      force. That Wessner would try for his revenge, he knew. That he would be

      abetted by Black Jack was almost certain, but fear had fled the happy

      heart of Freckles. He had kept his trust. He had won the respect of the

      Boss. No one ever could wipe from his heart the flood of holy adoration

      that had welled with the coming of his Angel. He would do his best, and

      trust for strength to meet the dark day of reckoning that he knew would

      come sooner or later. He swung round the trail, briskly tapping the wire,

      and singing in a voice that scarcely could have been surpassed for

      sweetness.

    


      At the edge of the clearing he came into the bright moonlight and there

      sat McLean on his mare. Freckles hurried to him.

    


      “Is there trouble?” he inquired anxiously.

    


      “That's what I wanted to ask you,” said the Boss. “I stopped at the cabin

      to see you a minute, before I turned in, and they said you had come down

      here. You must not do it, Freckles. The swamp is none too healthful at any

      time, and at night it is rank poison.”

     


      Freckles stood combing his fingers through Nellie's mane, while the dainty

      creature was twisting her head for his caresses. He pushed back his hat

      and looked into McLean's face. “It's come to the 'sleep with one eye

      open,' sir. I'm not looking for anything to be happening for a week or

      two, but it's bound to come, and soon. If I'm to keep me trust as I've

      promised you and meself, I've to live here mostly until the gang comes.

      You must be knowing that, sir.”

     


      “I'm afraid it's true, Freckles,” said McLean. “And I've decided to double

      the guard until we come. It will be only a few weeks, now; and I'm so

      anxious for you that you must not be left alone further. If anything

      should happen to you, Freckles, it would spoil one of the very dearest

      plans of my life.”

     


      Freckles heard with dismay the proposition to place a second guard.

    


      “Oh! no, no, Mr. McLean,” he cried. “Not for the world! I wouldn't be

      having a stranger around, scaring me birds and tramping up me study, and

      disturbing all me ways, for any money! I am all the guard you need! I will

      be faithful! I will turn over the lease with no tree missing—on me

      life, I will! Oh, don't be sending another man to set them saying I turned

      coward and asked for help. It will just kill the honor of me heart if you

      do it. The only thing I want is another gun. If it railly comes to

      trouble, six cartridges ain't many, and you know I am slow-like about

      reloading.” McLean reached into his hip pocket and handed a shining big

      revolver to Freckles, who slipped it beside the one already in his belt.

    


      Then the Boss sat brooding.

    


      “Freckles,” he said at last, “we never know the timber of a man's soul

      until something cuts into him deeply and brings the grain out strong.

      You've the making of a mighty fine piece of furniture, my boy, and you

      shall have your own way these few weeks yet. Then, if you will go, I

      intend to take you to the city and educate you, and you are to be my son,

      my lad—my own son!”

     


      Freckles twisted his finger in Nellie's mane to steady himself.

    


      “But why should you be doing that, sir?” he faltered.

    


      McLean slid his arm around the boy's shoulder and gathered him close.

    


      “Because I love you, Freckles,” he said simply.

    


      Freckles lifted a white face. “My God, sir!” he whispered. “Oh, my God!”

     


      McLean tightened his clasp a second longer, then he rode down the trail.

    


      Freckles lifted his hat and faced the sky. The harvest moon looked down,

      sheeting the swamp in silver glory. The Limberlost sang her night song.

      The swale softly rustled in the wind. Winged things of night brushed his

      face; and still Freckles gazed upward, trying to fathom these things that

      had come to him. There was no help from the sky. It seemed far away, cold,

      and blue. The earth, where flowers blossomed, angels walked, and love

      could be found, was better. But to One, above, he must make acknowledgment

      for these miracles. His lips moved and he began talking softly.

    


      “Thank You for each separate good thing that has come to me,” he said,

      “and above all for the falling of the feather. For if it didn't really

      fall from an angel, its falling brought an Angel, and if it's in the great

      heart of you to exercise yourself any further about me, oh, do please to

      be taking good care of her!”

     


 


      CHAPTER VI

    


      Wherein a Fight Occurs and Women Shoot Straight

    


      The following morning Freckles, inexpressibly happy, circled the

      Limberlost. He kept snatches of song ringing, as well as the wires. His

      heart was so full that tears of joy glistened in his eyes. He rigorously

      strove to divide his thought evenly between McLean and the Angel. He

      realized to the fullest the debt he already owed the Boss and the

      magnitude of last night's declaration and promises. He was hourly planning

      to deliver his trust and then enter with equal zeal on whatever task his

      beloved Boss saw fit to set him next. He wanted to be ready to meet every

      device that Wessner and Black Jack could think of to outwit him. He

      recognized their double leverage, for if they succeeded in felling even

      one tree McLean became liable for his wager.

    


      Freckles' brow wrinkled in his effort to think deeply and strongly, but

      from every swaying wild rose the Angel beckoned to him. When he crossed

      Sleepy Snake Creek and the goldfinch, waiting as ever, challenged: “SEE

      ME?” Freckles saw the dainty swaying grace of the Angel instead. What is a

      man to do with an Angel who dismembers herself and scatters over a whole

      swamp, thrusting a vivid reminder upon him at every turn?

    


      Freckles counted the days. This first one he could do little but test his

      wires, sing broken snatches, and dream; but before the week would bring

      her again he could do many things. He would carry all his books to the

      swamp to show to her. He would complete his flower bed, arrange every

      detail he had planned for his room, and make of it a bower fairies might

      envy. He must devise a way to keep water cool. He would ask Mrs. Duncan

      for a double lunch and an especially nice one the day of her next coming,

      so that if the Bird Woman happened to be late, the Angel might not suffer

      from thirst and hunger. He would tell her to bring heavy leather leggings,

      so that he might take her on a trip around the trail. She should make

      friends with all of his chickens and see their nests.

    


      On the line he talked of her incessantly.

    


      “You needn't be thinking,” he said to the goldfinch, “that because I'm

      coming down this line alone day after day, it's always to be so. Some of

      these times you'll be swinging on this wire, and you'll see me coming, and

      you'll swing, skip, and flirt yourself around, and chip up right spunky:

      'SEE ME?' I'll be saying 'See you? Oh, Lord! See her!' You'll look, and

      there she'll stand. The sunshine won't look gold any more, or the roses

      pink, or the sky blue, because she'll be the pinkest, bluest, goldest

      thing of all. You'll be yelling yourself hoarse with the jealousy of her.

      The sawbird will stretch his neck out of joint, and she'll turn the heads

      of all the flowers. Wherever she goes, I can go back afterward and see the

      things she's seen, walk the path she's walked, hear the grasses whispering

      over all she's said; and if there's a place too swampy for her bits of

      feet; Holy Mother! Maybe—maybe she'd be putting the beautiful arms

      of her around me neck and letting me carry her over!”

     


      Freckles shivered as with a chill. He sent the cudgel whirling skyward,

      dexterously caught it, and set it spinning.

    


      “You damned presumptuous fool!” he cried. “The thing for you to be

      thinking of would be to stretch in the muck for the feet of her to be

      walking over, and then you could hold yourself holy to be even of that

      service to her.

    


      “Maybe she'll be wanting the cup me blue-and-brown chickens raised their

      babies in. Perhaps she'd like to stop at the pool and see me bullfrog that

      had the goodness to take on human speech to show me the way out of me

      trouble. If there's any feathers falling that day, why, it's from the

      wings of me chickens—it's sure to be, for the only Angel outside the

      gates will be walking this timberline, and every step of the way I'll be

      holding me breath and praying that she don't unfold wings and sail away

      before the hungry eyes of me.”

     


      So Freckles dreamed his dreams, made his plans, and watched his line. He

      counted not only the days, but the hours of each day. As he told them off,

      every one bringing her closer, he grew happier in the prospect of her

      coming. He managed daily to leave some offering at the big elm log for his

      black chickens. He slipped under the line at every passing, and went to

      make sure that nothing was molesting them. Though it was a long trip, he

      paid them several extra visits a day for fear a snake, hawk, or fox might

      have found the baby. For now his chickens not only represented all his

      former interest in them, but they furnished the inducement that was

      bringing his Angel.

    


      Possibly he could find other subjects that the Bird Woman wanted. The

      teamster had said that his brother went after her every time he found a

      nest. He never had counted the nests that he knew of, and it might be that

      among all the birds of the swamp some would be rare to her.

    


      The feathered folk of the Limberlost were practically undisturbed save by

      their natural enemies. It was very probable that among his chickens others

      as odd as the big black ones could be found. If she wanted pictures of

      half-grown birds, he could pick up fifty in one morning's trip around the

      line, for he had fed, handled, and made friends with them ever since their

      eyes opened.

    


      He had gathered bugs and worms all spring as he noticed them on the grass

      and bushes, and dropped them into the first little open mouth he had

      found. The babies gladly had accepted this queer tri-parent addition to

      their natural providers.

    


      When the week had passed, Freckles had his room crisp and glowing with

      fresh living things that represented every color of the swamp. He carried

      bark and filled all the muckiest places of the trail.

    


      It was middle July. The heat of the past few days had dried the water

      around and through the Limberlost,

it. He had always had a

      prejudice against men who, in the transatlantic phrase, parted either

      their hair or their names in the middle.

    


      He had made his unheeding way past the house to the beginning of the

      avenue of trees, which he remembered from the previous evening's drive. To

      his right, an open space of roadway led off in the direction of the

      stables. As he hesitated, in momentary doubt which course to take, the

      sound of hoofs in the avenue caught his ear, and he stood still. In a

      moment there came into view, round a curve in the leafy distance, two

      horses with riders, advancing at a brisk canter. Soon he perceived that

      the riders were ladies; they drew rein as they approached him, and then it

      was to be seen that they were the pair he had judged to be such close

      friends last night—Lady Cressage and the daughter of the house.

    


      They smiled and nodded down at him, as he lifted his cap and bowed. Their

      cheeks were glowing and their eyes sparkling with the exhilaration of

      their ride. Even the Hon. Winifred looked comely and distinguished in his

      eyes, under the charm of this heightened vivacity. She seemed to carry

      herself better in the saddle than she did out of it; the sweep of her

      habit below the stirrup lent dignity to her figure.

    


      But her companion, whose big chestnut mount was pacing slowly toward the

      stepping-block—how should he bring within the compass of thought the

      impressions he had had of her as she passed? There seemed to have been no

      memory in his mind to prepare him for the beauty of the picture she had

      made. Slender, erect, exquisitely-tailored, she had gone by like some

      queen in a pageant, gracious yet unapproachable. He stared after her,

      mutely bewildered at the effect she produced upon him—until he saw

      that a groom had run from the stable-yard, and was helping the divinity to

      dismount. The angry thought that he might have done this himself rose

      within him—but there followed swiftly enough the answering

      conviction that he lacked the courage. He did not even advance to proffer

      his services to the other young lady, while there was still time. The

      truth was, he admitted ruefully to himself, they unnerved him.

    


      He had talked freely enough to them, or rather to the company of which

      they made part, the previous evening. There had been an hour or more,

      indeed, before the party broke up, in which he had borne the lion's share

      of the talk—and they had appeared as frankly entertained as the

      others. In fact, when he recalled the circle of faces to which he had

      addressed his monologue of reminiscences—curious experiences and

      adventures in Java and the Argentine, in Brazil and the Antilles and

      Mexico and the far West—it was in the face of Lady Cressage that he

      seemed to discern the most genuine interest.

    


      Why should she frighten him, then, by daylight? The whimsical theory that

      the wine at dinner had given him a spurious courage occurred to him. He

      shrugged his shoulders at it, and, with his hands in his pockets, turned

      toward the stables.

    


      The stable-yard is, from some points of view, the prettiest thing about

      Hadlow. There is a big, uneven, grass-grown space, in the centre of which,

      from a slight mound, springs an aged oak of tremendous girth and height.

      All around this enclosure are buildings of the same pale yellowish brick

      as the mansion itself, but quaintly differing one from another in design

      and size. Stables, carriage-houses, kennels, a laundry, a brewery, and

      half a dozen structures the intention of which is now somewhat uncertain—some

      flat-topped, some gabled, others with turrets, or massive grouped

      chimneys, or overhanging timbered upper stories—form round this

      unkempt, shadowed green a sort of village, with a communal individuality

      of its own.

    


      A glance shows its feudal relation to, and dependence upon, the great

      house behind which it nestles; some of the back-kitchens and offices of

      this great house, indeed, straggle out till they meet and merge themselves

      into this quadrangle. None the less, it presents to the enquiring gaze a

      specific character, of as old a growth, one might think, as the oak

      itself. Here servants have lived, it may be, since man first learned the

      trick of setting his foot on his brother's neck. Plainly enough, the

      monks' servants lived and worked here; half the buildings on the side

      nearest the house belong to their time, and one of them still bears a

      partially-defaced coat of arms that must have belonged to an Abbot. And

      when lay lord succeeded cleric, only the garb and vocabulary of servitude

      were altered in this square. Its population crossed themselves less, and

      worked much harder, but they remained in a world of their own, adjacent

      aud subject to the world of their masters, yet separated from it by oh!

      such countless and unthinkable distances.

    


      Thorpe sauntered along the side of the stables. He counted three men and a

      boy who visibly belonged to this department. The dog-cart of the previous

      evening had been run out upon the brick-pavement which drained the

      stables, and glistened with expensive smartness now beneath the sponge of

      one of the hostlers. Under cover, he discerned two other carriages, and

      there seemed to be at least half a dozen horses. The men who, in the half

      gloom of the loose-boxes, were busy grooming these animals made a curious

      whistling noise as they worked. Everybody in the yard touched a forelock

      to him as he passed.

    


      From this quaint, old-world enclosure he wandered at his leisure, through

      an open gate in the wall at the back, into the gardens behind the house.

      There was not much in the way of flowers to look at, but he moved about

      quite unconscious of any deprivation. A cluster of greenhouses, massed

      against the southern side of the mansion, attracted his listless fancy,

      and he walked toward what appeared to be an entrance to them. The door was

      locked, but he found another further on which opened to his hand. The air

      was very hot and moist inside, and the place was so filled with

      broad-leaved, umbrageous tropical plants that he had to stoop to make his

      way through to the end. The next house had a more tolerable atmosphere,

      and contained some blossoms to which he gave momentary attention. In the

      third house, through the glass-door, he could see a man—evidently a

      gardener—lifting some pots to a shelf overhead.

    


      The thought occurred to him that by entering into conversation with this

      man, he might indirectly obtain a hint as to the usual breakfast-hour at

      Hadlow. It was now nearly ten o'clock, and he was getting very hungry.

      Would they not ring a bell, or sound a gong, or something? he wondered.

      Perhaps there had been some such summons, and he had not heard it. It

      might be the intelligent thing for him to return to the house, at all

      events, and sit in the hall where the servants could see him, in case the

      meal was in progress.

    


      Looking idly through the glass at the gardener, meanwhile, it suddenly

      dawned upon him that the face and figure were familiar. He stared more

      intently at the man, casting about in his memory for a clue to his

      identity. It came to him that the person he had in mind was a fellow named

      Gafferson, who had kept an impoverished and down-at-the-heels sort of

      hotel and general store on the road from Belize to Boon Town, in British

      Honduras. Yes, it undoubtedly was Gafferson. What on earth was he doing

      here? Thorpe gave but brief consideration to this problem. It was of more

      immediate importance to recall the circumstances of his contact with the

      man. He had made Gafferson's poor shanty of an hotel his headquarters for

      the better part of a month—the base of supplies from which he made

      numerous prospecting tours into the mountains of the interior. Had he paid

      his bill on leaving? Yes, there was no doubt about that. He could even

      recall a certain pity for the unbusiness-like scale of charges, and the

      lack of perception of opportunity, which characterized the bill in

      question. He remembered now his impression that Gafferson would never do

      any good. It would be interesting to know what kind of an impression he,

      in turn, had produced on his thriftless host. At any rate, there was no

      good reason why he should not find out. He opened the door and went in.

    


      The gardener barely looked up from his occupation, and drew aside to let

      the newcomer pass with no sign of a gesture toward his cap. Thorpe halted,

      and tried to look at the pots on the staging as if he knew about such

      things.

    


      “What are you doing?” he asked, in the tentative tone of one who is in no

      need of information, but desires to be affable.

    


      “Drying off the first lot of gloxinias,” answered the other. “Some people

      put 'em on their sides, but I like 'em upright, close to the glass. It

      stands to reason, if you think about it.”

     


      “Why, certainly,” said Thorpe, with conviction. In his mind he contrasted

      the independence of Gafferson's manner with the practised servility of the

      stable-yard—and thought that he liked it—and then was not so

      sure. He perceived that there was no recognition of him. The gardener, as

      further desultory conversation about his work progressed, looked his

      interlocutor full in the face, but with a placid, sheep-like gaze which

      seemed to be entirely insensible to variations in the human species.

    


      “How did you ever get back here to England?” Thorpe was emboldened to ask

      at last. In comment upon the other's stare of puzzled enquiry, he went on:

      “You're Gafferson, aren't you? I thought so. When I last saw you, you were

      running a sort of half-way house, t'other side of Belize. That was in

      '90.”

     


      Gafferson—a thick-set, squat man of middle age, with a straggling

      reddish beard—turned upon him a tranquil but uninformed eye. “I

      suppose you would have been stopping at Government House,” he remarked.

      “That was in Sir Roger Goldsworthy's time. They used to come out often to

      see my flowers. And so you remembered my name. I suppose it was because of

      the Gaffersoniana hybrids. There was a good bit in the papers about them

      last spring.” Thorpe nodded an assent which it seemed better not to put

      into words. “Well, it beats all,” he mused aloud. “Why, man, there's gold

      in those mountains! You had an inside track on prospecting, placed as you

      were. And there's cocoa—and some day they'll coin money in rubber,

      too. All that country's waiting for is better communications. And you were

      on the spot, and knew all the lay of the land—and yet here you are

      back in England, getting so much a month for messing about in the mud.”

     


      He saw swiftly that his reflections had carried him beyond his earlier

      limit, and with rapidity decided upon frankness. “No, I wasn't in the

      Governor's outfit at all. I was looking for gold then—with

      occasionally an eye on rubber. I stopped at your place. Don't you remember

      me? My name's Thorpe. I had a beard then. Why, man, you and one of your

      niggers were with me three or four days once, up on the ridge beyond the

      Burnt Hills—why, you remember, the nigger was from San Domingo, and

      he was forever bragging about the San Domingo peppers, and saying those on

      the mainland hadn't enough strength to make a baby wrinkle his nose, and

      you found a pepper coming through the swamp, and you tipped me the wink,

      and you handed that pepper to the nigger, and it damned near killed him.

      Hell! You must remember that!”

     


      “That would have been the Chavica pertusum,” said Gafferson, thoughtfully.

      He seemed to rouse himself to an interest in the story itself with some

      difficulty. “Yes—I remember it,” he admitted, finally. “I shouldn't

      have known you though. I'm the worst in the world about remembering

      people. It seems to be growing on me. I notice that when I go up to London

      to the shows, I don't remember the men that I had the longest talks with

      the time before. Once you get wrapped up in your flowers, you've got no

      room in your head for anything else—that's the way of it.”

     


      Thorpe considered him with a ruminating eye. “So this is the sort of thing

      you really like, eh? You'd rather be doing this, eh? than making your pile

      in logwood and mahogany out there, or floating a gold mine?” Gafferson

      answered quite simply: “I wasn't the kind to ever make a pile. I got led

      into going out there when I was a youngster, and there didn't seem to be

      any good in trying to get back, but I wasn't making more than a bare

      living when you were there, and after that I didn't even do that much. It

      took me a good many years to find out what my real fancy was. I hated my

      hotel and my store, but I was crazy about my garden. Finally an American

      gentleman came along one day, and he put up at my place, and he saw that I

      was as near ruined as they make 'em, and he says to me, 'You're no good to

      run a hotel, nor yet a store, and this aint your country for a cent. What

      you're born for is to grow flowers. You can't afford to do it here,

      because nobody'll pay you for it, but you gather up your seeds and roots

      and so on, and come along with me to Atlanta, Georgia, and I'll put fat on

      your bones.'

    


      “That's what he said to me, and I took him at his word, and I was with him

      two years, and then I thought I'd like to come to England, and since then

      I've worked my way up here, till now I take a Royal Horticultural medal

      regular, and there's a clematis with salmon-coloured bars that'll be in

      the market next spring that's named after my master. And what could I ask

      more 'n that?”

     


      “Quite right,” said Thorpe. “What time do they have breakfast here?”

     


      The gardener's round, phlegmatic, florid countenance had taken on a mild

      glow of animation during his narrative. It relapsed into lethargy at the

      advent of this new topic.

    


      “It seems to me they eat at all hours,” he said. “But if you want to see

      his Lordship,” he went on, considering, “about noon would be your best

      time.”

     


      “See his Lordship!” repeated Thorpe, with an impatient grin. “Why I'm a

      guest here in the house. All I want is something to eat.”

     


      “A guest,” Gafferson repeated in turn, slowly. There was nothing

      unpleasant in the intonation, and Thorpe's sharp glance failed to detect

      any trace of offensive intention in his companion's fatuous visage. Yet it

      seemed to pass between the two men that Gafferson was surprised, and that

      there were abundant grounds for his surprise.

    


      “Why, yes,” said Thorpe, with as much nonchalance as he could summon,

      “your master is one of my directors. I've taken a fancy to him, and I'm

      going to make a rich man of him. He was keen about my seeing his place

      here, and kept urging me to come, and so finally I've got away over Sunday

      to oblige him. By the way—I shall buy an estate in the country as

      soon as the right thing offers, and I shall want to set up no end of

      gardens and greenhouses and all that. I see that I couldn't come to a

      better man than you for advice. I daresay I'll put the whole arrangement

      of it in your hands. You'd like that, wouldn't you?”

     


      “Whatever his Lordship agrees to,” the gardener replied, sententiously. He

      turned to the staging, and took up one of the pots.

    


      Thorpe swung on his heel, and moved briskly toward the further door, which

      he could see opened upon the lawn. He was conscious of annoyance with this

      moon-faced, dawdling Gafferson, who had been afforded such a splendid

      chance of profiting by an old acquaintanceship—it might even be

      called, as things went in Honduras, a friendship—and who had so

      clumsily failed to rise to the situation. The bitter thought of going back

      and giving him a half-crown rose in Thorpe's inventive mind, and he paused

      for an instant, his hand on the door-knob, to think it over. The gratuity

      would certainly put Gafferson in his place, but then the spirit in which

      it was offered would be wholly lost on his dull brain. And moreover, was

      it so certain that he would take it? He had not said “sir” once, and he

      had talked about medals with the pride of a scientist. The rules were

      overwhelmingly against a gardener rejecting a tip, of course, but if there

      was no more than one chance in twenty of it, Thorpe decided that he could

      not afford the risk.

    


      He quitted the greenhouse with resolution, and directed his steps toward

      the front of the mansion. As he entered the hall, a remarkably tuneful and

      resonant chime filled his ears with novel music. He looked and saw that a

      white-capped, neatly-clad domestic, standing with her back to him beside

      the newel-post of the stairs, was beating out the tune with two padded

      sticks upon some strips of metal ranged on a stand of Indian workmanship.

      The sound was delightful, but even more so was the implication that it

      betokened breakfast.

    


      With inspiration, he drew forth the half-crown which he had been fingering

      in his pocket, and gave it to the girl as she turned. “That's the kind of

      concert I like,” he declared, bestowing the patronage of a jovial smile

      upon her pleased and comely face. “Show me the way to this breakfast that

      you've been serenading about.”

     


      Out in the greenhouse, meanwhile, Gafferson continued to regard blankly

      the shrivelled, fatty leaves of the plant he had taken up. “Thorpe,” he

      said aloud, as if addressing the tabid gloxinia—“Thorpe—yes—I

      remember his initials—J. S. Thorpe. Now, who's the man that told me

      about him? and what was it he told me?”

     


 


      CHAPTER VII

    


      THE experiences of the breakfast room were very agreeable indeed. Thorpe

      found himself the only man present, and, after the first few minutes of

      embarrassment at this discovery, it filled him with surprised delight to

     

wn what it is to

dare and to aspire, to dream mighty dreams and to see them perish—to see

all the fair flowers of my spirit trampled into the mire by the wild-beast

powers of my life. I know what is the price that a working-man pays for

knowledge—I have paid for it with food and sleep, with agony of body and

mind, with health, almost with life itself; and so, when I come to you with a

story of hope and freedom, with the vision of a new earth to be created, of a

new labor to be dared, I am not surprised that I find you sordid and material,

sluggish and incredulous. That I do not despair is because I know also the

forces that are driving behind you—because I know the raging lash of

poverty, the sting of contempt and mastership, ‘the insolence of office

and the spurns.’ Because I feel sure that in the crowd that has come to

me tonight, no matter how many may be dull and heedless, no matter how many may

have come out of idle curiosity, or in order to ridicule—there will be

some one man whom pain and suffering have made desperate, whom some chance

vision of wrong and horror has startled and shocked into attention. And to him

my words will come like a sudden flash of lightning to one who travels in

darkness—revealing the way before him, the perils and the

obstacles—solving all problems, making all difficulties clear! The scales

will fall from his eyes, the shackles will be torn from his limbs—he will

leap up with a cry of thankfulness, he will stride forth a free man at last! A

man delivered from his self-created slavery! A man who will never more be

trapped—whom no blandishments will cajole, whom no threats will frighten;

who from tonight on will move forward, and not backward, who will study and

understand, who will gird on his sword and take his place in the army of his

comrades and brothers. Who will carry the good tidings to others, as I have

carried them to him—priceless gift of liberty and light that is neither

mine nor his, but is the heritage of the soul of man! Working-men,

working-men—comrades! open your eyes and look about you! You have lived

so long in the toil and heat that your senses are dulled, your souls are

numbed; but realize once in your lives this world in which you dwell—tear

off the rags of its customs and conventions—behold it as it is, in all

its hideous nakedness! Realize it, realize it! Realize that out upon the

plains of Manchuria tonight two hostile armies are facing each other—that

now, while we are seated here, a million human beings may be hurled at each

other’s throats, striving with the fury of maniacs to tear each other to

pieces! And this in the twentieth century, nineteen hundred years since the

Prince of Peace was born on earth! Nineteen hundred years that his words have

been preached as divine, and here two armies of men are rending and tearing

each other like the wild beasts of the forest! Philosophers have reasoned,

prophets have denounced, poets have wept and pleaded—and still this

hideous Monster roams at large! We have schools and colleges, newspapers and

books; we have searched the heavens and the earth, we have weighed and probed

and reasoned—and all to equip men to destroy each other! We call it War,

and pass it by—but do not put me off with platitudes and

conventions—come with me, come with me—realize it! See the

bodies of men pierced by bullets, blown into pieces by bursting shells! Hear

the crunching of the bayonet, plunged into human flesh; hear the groans and

shrieks of agony, see the faces of men crazed by pain, turned into fiends by

fury and hate! Put your hand upon that piece of flesh—it is hot and

quivering—just now it was a part of a man! This blood is still

steaming—it was driven by a human heart! Almighty God! and this goes

on—it is systematic, organized, premeditated! And we know it, and read of

it, and take it for granted; our papers tell of it, and the presses are not

stopped—our churches know of it, and do not close their doors—the

people behold it, and do not rise up in horror and revolution!


“Or perhaps Manchuria is too far away for you—come home with me

then, come here to Chicago. Here in this city to-night ten thousand women are

shut up in foul pens, and driven by hunger to sell their bodies to live. And we

know it, we make it a jest! And these women are made in the image of your

mothers, they may be your sisters, your daughters; the child whom you left at

home tonight, whose laughing eyes will greet you in the morning—that fate

may be waiting for her! To-night in Chicago there are ten thousand men,

homeless and wretched, willing to work and begging for a chance, yet starving,

and fronting in terror the awful winter cold! Tonight in Chicago there are a

hundred thousand children wearing out their strength and blasting their lives

in the effort to earn their bread! There are a hundred thousand mothers who are

living in misery and squalor, struggling to earn enough to feed their little

ones! There are a hundred thousand old people, cast off and helpless, waiting

for death to take them from their torments! There are a million people, men and

women and children, who share the curse of the wage-slave; who toil every hour

they can stand and see, for just enough to keep them alive; who are condemned

till the end of their days to monotony and weariness, to hunger and misery, to

heat and cold, to dirt and disease, to ignorance and drunkenness and vice! And

then turn over the page with me, and gaze upon the other side of the picture.

There are a thousand—ten thousand, maybe—who are the masters of

these slaves, who own their toil. They do nothing to earn what they receive,

they do not even have to ask for it—it comes to them of itself, their

only care is to dispose of it. They live in palaces, they riot in luxury and

extravagance—such as no words can describe, as makes the imagination reel

and stagger, makes the soul grow sick and faint. They spend hundreds of dollars

for a pair of shoes, a handkerchief, a garter; they spend millions for horses

and automobiles and yachts, for palaces and banquets, for little shiny stones

with which to deck their bodies. Their life is a contest among themselves for

supremacy in ostentation and recklessness, in the destroying of useful and

necessary things, in the wasting of the labor and the lives of their fellow

creatures, the toil and anguish of the nations, the sweat and tears and blood

of the human race! It is all theirs—it comes to them; just as all the

springs pour into streamlets, and the streamlets into rivers, and the rivers

into the oceans—so, automatically and inevitably, all the wealth of

society comes to them. The farmer tills the soil, the miner digs in the earth,

the weaver tends the loom, the mason carves the stone; the clever man invents,

the shrewd man directs, the wise man studies, the inspired man sings—and

all the result, the products of the labor of brain and muscle, are gathered

into one stupendous stream and poured into their laps! The whole of society is

in their grip, the whole labor of the world lies at their mercy—and like

fierce wolves they rend and destroy, like ravening vultures they devour and

tear! The whole power of mankind belongs to them, forever and beyond

recall—do what it can, strive as it will, humanity lives for them and

dies for them! They own not merely the labor of society, they have bought the

governments; and everywhere they use their raped and stolen power to intrench

themselves in their privileges, to dig wider and deeper the channels through

which the river of profits flows to them!—And you, workingmen,

workingmen! You have been brought up to it, you plod on like beasts of burden,

thinking only of the day and its pain—yet is there a man among you who

can believe that such a system will continue forever—is there a man here

in this audience tonight so hardened and debased that he dare rise up before me

and say that he believes it can continue forever; that the product of the labor

of society, the means of existence of the human race, will always belong to

idlers and parasites, to be spent for the gratification of vanity and

lust—to be spent for any purpose whatever, to be at the disposal of any

individual will whatever—that somehow, somewhere, the labor of humanity

will not belong to humanity, to be used for the purposes of humanity, to be

controlled by the will of humanity? And if this is ever to be, how is it to

be—what power is there that will bring it about? Will it be the task of

your masters, do you think—will they write the charter of your liberties?

Will they forge you the sword of your deliverance, will they marshal you the

army and lead it to the fray? Will their wealth be spent for the

purpose—will they build colleges and churches to teach you, will they

print papers to herald your progress, and organize political parties to guide

and carry on the struggle? Can you not see that the task is your

task—yours to dream, yours to resolve, yours to execute? That if ever it

is carried out, it will be in the face of every obstacle that wealth and

mastership can oppose—in the face of ridicule and slander, of hatred and

persecution, of the bludgeon and the jail? That it will be by the power of your

naked bosoms, opposed to the rage of oppression! By the grim and bitter

teaching of blind and merciless affliction! By the painful gropings of the

untutored mind, by the feeble stammerings of the uncultured voice! By the sad

and lonely hunger of the spirit; by seeking and striving and yearning, by

heartache and despairing, by agony and sweat of blood! It will be by money paid

for with hunger, by knowledge stolen from sleep, by thoughts communicated under

the shadow of the gallows! It will be a movement beginning in the far-off past,

a thing obscure and unhonored, a thing easy to ridicule, easy to despise; a

thing unlovely, wearing the aspect of vengeance and hate—but to you, the

working-man, the wage-slave, calling with a voice insistent,

imperious—with a voice that you cannot escape, wherever upon the earth

you may be! With the voice of all your wrongs, with the voice of all your

desires; with the voice of your duty and your hope—of everything in the

world that is worth while to you! The voice of the poor, demanding that poverty

shall cease! The voice of the oppressed, pronouncing the doom of oppression!

The voice of power, wrought out of suffering—of resolution, crushed out

of weakness—of joy and courage, born in the bottomless pit of anguish and

despair! The voice of Labor, despised and outraged; a mighty giant, lying

prostrate—mountainous, colossal, but blinded, bound, and ignorant of his

strength. And now a dream of resistance haunts him, hope battling with fear;

until suddenly he stirs, and a fetter snaps—and a thrill shoots through

him, to the farthest ends of his huge body, and in a flash the dream becomes an

act! He starts, he lifts himself; and the bands are shattered, the burdens roll

off him—he rises—towering, gigantic; he springs to his feet, he

shouts in his newborn exultation—”


And the speaker’s voice broke suddenly, with the stress of his feelings;

he stood with his arms stretched out above him, and the power of his vision

seemed to lift him from the floor. The audience came to its feet with a yell;

men waved their arms, laughing aloud in their excitement. And Jurgis was with

them, he was shouting to tear his throat; shouting because he could not help

it, because the stress of his feeling was more than he could bear. It was not

merely the man’s words, the torrent of his eloquence. It was his

presence, it was his voice: a voice with strange intonations that rang through

the chambers of the soul like the clanging of a bell—that gripped the

listener like a mighty hand about his body, that shook him and startled him

with sudden fright, with a sense of things not of earth, of mysteries never

spoken before, of presences of awe and terror! There was an unfolding of vistas

before him, a breaking of the ground beneath him, an upheaving, a stirring, a

trembling; he felt himself suddenly a mere man no longer—there were

powers within him undreamed of, there were demon forces contending, age-long

wonders struggling to be born; and he sat oppressed with pain and joy, while a

tingling stole down into his finger tips, and his breath came hard and fast.

The sentences of this man were to Jurgis like the crashing of thunder in his

soul; a flood of emotions surged up in him—all his old hopes and

longings, his old griefs and rages and despairs. All that he had ever felt in

his whole life seemed to come back to him at once, and with one new emotion,

hardly to be described. That he should have suffered such oppressions and such

horrors was bad enough; but that he should have been crushed and beaten by

them, that he should have submitted, and forgotten, and lived in

peace—ah, truly that was a thing not to be put into words, a thing not to

be borne by a human creature, a thing of terror and madness!

“What,” asks the prophet, “is the murder of them that kill

the body, to the murder of them that kill the soul?” And Jurgis was a man

whose soul had been murdered, who had ceased to hope and to struggle—who

had made terms with degradation and despair; and now, suddenly, in one awful

convulsion, the black and hideous fact was made plain to him! There was a

falling in of all the pillars of his soul, the sky seemed to split above

him—he stood there, with his clenched hands upraised, his eyes bloodshot,

and the veins standing out purple in his face, roaring in the voice of a wild

beast, frantic, incoherent, maniacal. And when he could shout no more he still

stood there, gasping, and whispering hoarsely to himself: “By God! By

God! By God!”


CHAPTER XXIX


The man had gone back to a seat upon the platform, and Jurgis realized that his

speech was over. The applause continued for several minutes; and then some one

started a song, and the crowd took it up, and the place shook with it. Jurgis

had never heard it, and he could not make out the words, but the wild and

wonderful spirit of it seized upon him—it was the

“Marseillaise!” As stanza after stanza of it thundered forth, he

sat with his hands clasped, trembling in every nerve. He had never been so

stirred in his life—it was a miracle that had been wrought in him. He

could not think at all, he was stunned; yet he knew that in the mighty upheaval

that had taken place in his soul, a new man had been born. He had been torn out

of the jaws of destruction, he had been delivered from the thraldom of despair;

the whole world had been changed for him—he was free, he was free! Even

if he were to suffer as he had before, even if he were to beg and starve,

nothing would be the same to him; he would understand it, and bear it. He would

no longer be the sport of circumstances, he would be a man, with a will and a

purpose; he would have something to fight for, something to die for, if need

be! Here were men who would show him and help him; and he would have friends

and allies, he would dwell in the sight of justice, and walk arm in arm with

power.


The audience subsided again, and Jurgis sat back. The chairman of the meeting

came forward and began to speak. His voice sounded thin and futile after the

other’s, and to Jurgis it seemed a profanation. Why should any one else

speak, after that miraculous man—why should they not all sit in silence?

The chairman was explaining that a collection would now be taken up to defray

the expenses of the meeting, and for the benefit of the campaign fund of the

party. Jurgis heard; but he had not a penny to give, and so his thoughts went

elsewhere again.


He kept his eyes fixed on the orator, who sat in an armchair, his head leaning

on his hand and his attitude indicating exhaustion. But suddenly he stood up

again, and Jurgis heard the chairman of the meeting saying that the speaker

would now answer any questions which the audience might care to put to him. The

man came forward, and some one—a woman—arose and asked about some

opinion the speaker had expressed concerning Tolstoy. Jurgis had never heard of

Tolstoy, and did not care anything about him. Why should any one want to ask

such questions, after an address like that? The thing was not to talk, but to

do; the thing was to get bold of others and rouse them, to organize them and

prepare for the fight! But still the discussion went on, in ordinary

conversational tones, and it brought Jurgis back to the everyday world. A few

minutes ago he had felt like seizing the hand of the beautiful lady by his

side, and kissing it; he had felt like flinging his arms about the neck of the

man on the other side of him. And now he began to realize again that he was a

“hobo,” that he was ragged and dirty, and smelled bad, and had no

place to sleep that night!


And so, at last, when the meeting broke up, and the audience started to leave,

poor Jurgis was in an agony of uncertainty. He had not thought of

leaving—he had thought that the vision must last forever, that he had

found comrades and brothers. But now he would go out, and the thing would fade

away, and he would never be able to find it again! He sat in his seat,

frightened and wondering; but others in the same row wanted to get out, and so

he had to stand up and move along. As he was swept down the aisle he looked

from one person to another, wistfully; they were all excitedly discussing the

address—but there was nobody who offered to discuss it with him. He was

near enough to the door to feel the night air, when desperation seized him. He

knew nothing at all about that speech he had heard, not even the name of the

orator; and he was to go away—no, no, it was preposterous, he must speak

to some one; he must find that man himself and tell him. He would not despise

him, tramp as he was!


So he stepped into an empty row of seats and watched, and when the crowd had

thinned out, he started toward the platform. The speaker was gone; but there

was a stage door that stood open, with people passing in and out, and no one on

guard. Jurgis summoned up his courage and went in, and down a hallway, and to

the door of a room where many people were crowded. No one paid any attention to

him, and he pushed in, and in a corner he saw the man he sought. The orator sat

in a chair, with his shoulders sunk together and his eyes half closed; his face

was ghastly pale, almost greenish in hue, and one arm lay limp at his side. A

big man with spectacles on stood near him, and kept pushing back the crowd,

saying, “Stand away a little, please; can’t you see the comrade is

worn out?”


So Jurgis stood watching, while five or ten minutes passed. Now and then the

man would look up, and address a word or two to those who were near him; and,

at last, on one of these occasions, his glance rested on Jurgis. There seemed

to be a slight hint of inquiry about it, and a sudden impulse seized the other.

He stepped forward.


“I wanted to thank you, sir!” he began, in breathless haste.

“I could not go away without telling you how much—how glad I am I

heard you. I—I didn’t know anything about it all—”


The big man with the spectacles, who had moved away, came back at this moment.

“The comrade is too tired

ning. I tried to get her to eat something, but she couldn’t; and

at last she fell asleep.”


“Let me see her at once,” said Mrs. Yeobright, hastening towards

the van.


The reddleman followed with the lantern, and, stepping up first, assisted Mrs.

Yeobright to mount beside him. On the door being opened she perceived at the

end of the van an extemporized couch, around which was hung apparently all the

drapery that the reddleman possessed, to keep the occupant of the little couch

from contact with the red materials of his trade. A young girl lay thereon,

covered with a cloak. She was asleep, and the light of the lantern fell upon

her features.


A fair, sweet, and honest country face was revealed, reposing in a nest of wavy

chestnut hair. It was between pretty and beautiful. Though her eyes were

closed, one could easily imagine the light necessarily shining in them as the

culmination of the luminous workmanship around. The groundwork of the face was

hopefulness; but over it now lay like a foreign substance a film of anxiety

and grief. The grief had been there so shortly as to have abstracted nothing of

the bloom, and had as yet but given a dignity to what it might eventually

undermine. The scarlet of her lips had not had time to abate, and just now it

appeared still more intense by the absence of the neighbouring and more

transient colour of her cheek. The lips frequently parted, with a murmur of

words. She seemed to belong rightly to a madrigal—to require viewing

through rhyme and harmony.


One thing at least was obvious: she was not made to be looked at thus. The

reddleman had appeared conscious of as much, and, while Mrs. Yeobright looked

in upon her, he cast his eyes aside with a delicacy which well became him. The

sleeper apparently thought so too, for the next moment she opened her own.


The lips then parted with something of anticipation, something more of doubt;

and her several thoughts and fractions of thoughts, as signalled by the changes

on her face, were exhibited by the light to the utmost nicety. An ingenuous,

transparent life was disclosed, as if the flow of her existence could be seen

passing within her. She understood the scene in a moment.


“O yes, it is I, Aunt,” she cried. “I know how frightened you

are, and how you cannot believe it; but all the same, it is I who have come

home like this!”


“Tamsin, Tamsin!” said Mrs. Yeobright, stooping over the young

woman and kissing her. “O my dear girl!”


Thomasin was now on the verge of a sob, but by an unexpected self-command she

uttered no sound. With a gentle panting breath she sat upright.


“I did not expect to see you in this state, any more than you me,”

she went on quickly. “Where am I, Aunt?”


“Nearly home, my dear. In Egdon Bottom. What dreadful thing is it?”


“I’ll tell you in a moment. So near, are we? Then I will get out

and walk. I want to go home by the path.”


“But this kind man who has done so much will, I am sure, take you right

on to my house?” said the aunt, turning to the reddleman, who had

withdrawn from the front of the van on the awakening of the girl, and stood in

the road.


“Why should you think it necessary to ask me? I will, of course,”

said he.


“He is indeed kind,” murmured Thomasin. “I was once

acquainted with him, Aunt, and when I saw him today I thought I should prefer

his van to any conveyance of a stranger. But I’ll walk now. Reddleman,

stop the horses, please.”


The man regarded her with tender reluctance, but stopped them


Aunt and niece then descended from the van, Mrs. Yeobright saying to its owner,

“I quite recognize you now. What made you change from the nice business

your father left you?”


“Well, I did,” he said, and looked at Thomasin, who blushed a

little. “Then you’ll not be wanting me any more tonight,

ma’am?”


Mrs. Yeobright glanced around at the dark sky, at the hills, at the perishing

bonfires, and at the lighted window of the inn they had neared. “I think

not,” she said, “since Thomasin wishes to walk. We can soon run up

the path and reach home—we know it well.”


And after a few further words they parted, the reddleman moving onwards with

his van, and the two women remaining standing in the road. As soon as the

vehicle and its driver had withdrawn so far as to be beyond all possible reach

of her voice, Mrs. Yeobright turned to her niece.


“Now, Thomasin,” she said sternly, “what’s the meaning

of this disgraceful performance?”


V.

Perplexity among Honest People


Thomasin looked as if quite overcome by her aunt’s change of manner.

“It means just what it seems to mean: I am—not married,” she

replied faintly. “Excuse me—for humiliating you, Aunt, by this

mishap—I am sorry for it. But I cannot help it.”


“Me? Think of yourself first.”


“It was nobody’s fault. When we got there the parson wouldn’t

marry us because of some trifling irregularity in the license.”


“What irregularity?”


“I don’t know. Mr. Wildeve can explain. I did not think when I went

away this morning that I should come back like this.” It being dark,

Thomasin allowed her emotion to escape her by the silent way of tears, which

could roll down her cheek unseen.


“I could almost say that it serves you right—if I did not feel that

you don’t deserve it,” continued Mrs. Yeobright, who, possessing

two distinct moods in close contiguity, a gentle mood and an angry, flew from

one to the other without the least warning. “Remember, Thomasin, this

business was none of my seeking; from the very first, when you began to feel

foolish about that man, I warned you he would not make you happy. I felt it so

strongly that I did what I would never have believed myself capable of

doing—stood up in the church, and made myself the public talk for weeks.

But having once consented, I don’t submit to these fancies without good

reason. Marry him you must after this.”


“Do you think I wish to do otherwise for one moment?” said

Thomasin, with a heavy sigh. “I know how wrong it was of me to love him,

but don’t pain me by talking like that, Aunt! You would not have had me

stay there with him, would you?—and your house is the only home I have to

return to. He says we can be married in a day or two.”


“I wish he had never seen you.”


“Very well; then I will be the miserablest woman in the world, and not

let him see me again. No, I won’t have him!”


“It is too late to speak so. Come with me. I am going to the inn to see

if he has returned. Of course I shall get to the bottom of this story at once.

Mr. Wildeve must not suppose he can play tricks upon me, or any belonging to

me.”


“It was not that. The license was wrong, and he couldn’t get

another the same day. He will tell you in a moment how it was, if he

comes.”


“Why didn’t he bring you back?”


“That was me!” again sobbed Thomasin. “When I found we could

not be married I didn’t like to come back with him, and I was very ill.

Then I saw Diggory Venn, and was glad to get him to take me home. I cannot

explain it any better, and you must be angry with me if you will.”


“I shall see about that,” said Mrs. Yeobright; and they turned

towards the inn, known in the neighbourhood as the Quiet Woman, the sign of

which represented the figure of a matron carrying her head under her arm. The

front of the house was towards the heath and Rainbarrow, whose dark shape

seemed to threaten it from the sky. Upon the door was a neglected brass plate,

bearing the unexpected inscription, “Mr. Wildeve, Engineer”—a

useless yet cherished relic from the time when he had been started in that

profession in an office at Budmouth by those who had hoped much from him, and

had been disappointed. The garden was at the back, and behind this ran a still

deep stream, forming the margin of the heath in that direction, meadow-land

appearing beyond the stream.


But the thick obscurity permitted only skylines to be visible of any scene at

present. The water at the back of the house could be heard, idly spinning

whirpools in its creep between the rows of dry feather-headed reeds which

formed a stockade along each bank. Their presence was denoted by sounds as of a

congregation praying humbly, produced by their rubbing against each other in

the slow wind.


The window, whence the candlelight had shone up the vale to the eyes of the

bonfire group, was uncurtained, but the sill lay too high for a pedestrian on

the outside to look over it into the room. A vast shadow, in which could be

dimly traced portions of a masculine contour, blotted half the ceiling.


“He seems to be at home,” said Mrs. Yeobright.


“Must I come in, too, Aunt?” asked Thomasin faintly. “I

suppose not; it would be wrong.”


“You must come, certainly—to confront him, so that he may make no

false representations to me. We shall not be five minutes in the house, and

then we’ll walk home.”


Entering the open passage, she tapped at the door of the private parlour,

unfastened it, and looked in.


The back and shoulders of a man came between Mrs. Yeobright’s eyes and

the fire. Wildeve, whose form it was, immediately turned, arose, and advanced

to meet his visitors.


He was quite a young man, and of the two properties, form and motion, the

latter first attracted the eye in him. The grace of his movement was

singular—it was the pantomimic expression of a lady-killing career. Next

came into notice the more material qualities, among which was a profuse crop of

hair impending over the top of his face, lending to his forehead the

high-cornered outline of an early Gothic shield; and a neck which was smooth

and round as a cylinder. The lower half of his figure was of light build.

Altogether he was one in whom no man would have seen anything to admire, and in

whom no woman would have seen anything to dislike.


He discerned the young girl’s form in the passage, and said,

“Thomasin, then, has reached home. How could you leave me in that way,

darling?” And turning to Mrs. Yeobright—“It was useless to

argue with her. She would go, and go alone.”


“But what’s the meaning of it all?” demanded Mrs. Yeobright

haughtily.


“Take a seat,” said Wildeve, placing chairs for the two women.

“Well, it was a very stupid mistake, but such mistakes will happen. The

license was useless at Anglebury. It was made out for Budmouth, but as I

didn’t read it I wasn’t aware of that.”


“But you had been staying at Anglebury?”


“No. I had been at Budmouth—till two days ago—and that was

where I had intended to take her; but when I came to fetch her we decided upon

Anglebury, forgetting that a new license would be necessary. There was not time

to get to Budmouth afterwards.”


“I think you are very much to blame,” said Mrs. Yeobright.


“It was quite my fault we chose Anglebury,” Thomasin pleaded.

“I proposed it because I was not known there.”


“I know so well that I am to blame that you need not remind me of

it,” replied Wildeve shortly.


“Such things don’t happen for nothing,” said the aunt.

“It is a great slight to me and my family; and when it gets known there

will be a very unpleasant time for us. How can she look her friends in the face

tomorrow? It is a very great injury, and one I cannot easily forgive. It may

even reflect on her character.”


“Nonsense,” said Wildeve.


Thomasin’s large eyes had flown from the face of one to the face of the

other during this discussion, and she now said anxiously, “Will you allow

me, Aunt, to talk it over alone with Damon for five minutes? Will you,

Damon?”


“Certainly, dear,” said Wildeve, “if your aunt will excuse

us.” He led her into an adjoining room, leaving Mrs. Yeobright by the

fire.


As soon as they were alone, and the door closed, Thomasin said, turning up her

pale, tearful face to him, “It is killing me, this, Damon! I did not mean

to part from you in anger at Anglebury this morning; but I was frightened and

hardly knew what I said. I’ve not let Aunt know how much I suffered

today; and it is so hard to command my face and voice, and to smile as if it

were a slight thing to me; but I try to do so, that she may not be still more

indignant with you. I know you could not help it, dear, whatever Aunt may

think.”


“She is very unpleasant.”


“Yes,” Thomasin murmured, “and I suppose I seem so now....

Damon, what do you mean to do about me?”


“Do about you?”


“Yes. Those who don’t like you whisper things which at moments make

me doubt you. We mean to marry, I suppose, don’t we?”


“Of course we do. We have only to go to Budmouth on Monday, and we marry

at once.”


“Then do let us go!—O Damon, what you make me say!” She hid

her face in her handkerchief. “Here am I asking you to marry me, when by

rights you ought to be on your knees imploring me, your cruel mistress, not to

refuse you, and saying it would break your heart if I did. I used to think it

would be pretty and sweet like that; but how different!”


“Yes, real life is never at all like that.”


“But I don’t care personally if it never takes place,” she

added with a little dignity; “no, I can live without you. It is Aunt I

think of. She is so proud, and thinks so much of her family respectability,

that she will be cut down with mortification if this story should get abroad

before—it is done. My cousin Clym, too, will be much wounded.”


“Then he will be very unreasonable. In fact, you are all rather

unreasonable.”


Thomasin coloured a little, and not with love. But whatever the momentary

feeling which caused that flush in her, it went as it came, and she humbly

said, “I never mean to be, if I can help it. I merely feel that you have

my aunt to some extent in your power at last.”


“As a matter of justice it is almost due to me,” said Wildeve.

“Think what I have gone through to win her consent; the insult that it is

to any man to have the banns forbidden—the double insult to a man unlucky

enough to be cursed with sensitiveness, and blue demons, and Heaven knows what,

as I am. I can never forget those banns. A harsher man would rejoice now in the

power I have of turning upon your aunt by going no further in the

business.”


She looked wistfully at him with her sorrowful eyes as he said those words, and

her aspect showed that more than one person in the room could deplore the

possession of sensitiveness. Seeing that she was really suffering he seemed

disturbed and added, “This is merely a reflection you know. I have not

the least intention to refuse to complete the marriage, Tamsie mine—I

could not bear it.”


“You could not, I know!” said the fair girl, brightening.

“You, who cannot bear the sight of pain in even an insect, or any

disagreeable sound, or unpleasant smell even, will not long cause pain to me

and mine.”


“I will not, if I can help it.”


“Your hand upon it, Damon.”


He carelessly gave her his hand.


“Ah, by my crown, what’s that?” he said suddenly.


There fell upon their ears the sound of numerous voices singing in front of the

house. Among these, two made themselves prominent by their peculiarity: one was

a very strong bass, the other a wheezy thin piping. Thomasin recognized them as

belonging to Timothy Fairway and Grandfer Cantle respectively.


“What does it mean—it is not skimmity-riding, I hope?” she

said, with a frightened gaze at Wildeve.


“Of course not; no, it is that the heath-folk have come to sing to us a

welcome. This is intolerable!” He began pacing about, the men outside

singing cheerily—


“He told′ her that she′ was the joy′ of his

life′,

And if′ she’d con-sent′ he would make her his

wife′;

She could′ not refuse′ him; to church′ so they

went′,

Young Will was forgot′, and young Sue′ was content′;

And then′ was she kiss’d′ and set down′ on his

knee′,

No man′ in the world′ was so lov′-ing as

he′!”


Mrs. Yeobright burst in from the outer room. “Thomasin, Thomasin!”

she said, looking indignantly at Wildeve; “here’s a pretty

exposure! Let us escape at once. Come!”


It was, however, too late to get away by the passage. A rugged knocking had

begun upon the door of the front room. Wildeve, who had gone to the window,

came back.


“Stop!” he said imperiously, putting his hand upon Mrs.

Yeobright’s arm. “We are regularly besieged. There are fifty of

them out there if there’s one. You stay in this room with Thomasin;

I’ll go out and face them. You must stay now, for my sake, till they are

gone, so that it may seem as if all was right. Come, Tamsie dear, don’t

go making a scene—we must marry after this; that you can see as well as

I. Sit still, that’s all—and don’t speak much. I’ll

manage them. Blundering fools!”


He pressed the agitated girl into a seat, returned to the outer room and opened

the door. Immediately outside, in the passage, appeared Grandfer Cantle singing

in concert with those still standing in front of the house. He came into the

room and nodded abstractedly to Wildeve, his lips still parted, and his

features excruciatingly strained in the emission of the chorus. This being

ended, he said heartily, “Here’s welcome to the new-made couple,

and God bless ’em!”


“Thank you,” said Wildeve, with dry resentment, his face as gloomy

as a thunderstorm.


At the Grandfer’s heels now came the rest of the group, which included

Fairway, Christian, Sam the turf-cutter, Humphrey, and a dozen others. All

smiled upon Wildeve, and upon his tables and chairs likewise, from a general

sense of friendliness towards the articles as well as towards their owner.


“We be not here afore Mrs. Yeobright after all,” said Fairway,

recognizing the matron’s bonnet through the glass partition which divided

the public apartment they had entered from the room where the women sat.

“We struck down across, d’ye see, Mr. Wildeve, and she went round

by the path.”


“And I see the young bride’s little head!” said Grandfer,

peeping in the same direction, and discerning Thomasin, who was waiting beside

her aunt in a miserable and awkward way. “Not quite settled in

yet—well, well, there’s plenty of time.”


Wildeve made no reply; and probably feeling that the sooner he treated them the

sooner they would go, he produced a stone jar, which threw a warm halo over

matters at once.


“That’s a drop of the right sort, I can see,” said Grandfer

Cantle, with the air of a man too well-mannered to show any hurry to taste it.


“Yes,” said Wildeve, “’tis some old mead. I hope you

will like it.”


“O ay!” replied the guests, in the hearty tones natural when the

words demanded by politeness coincide with those of deepest feeling.

“There isn’t a prettier drink under the sun.”


“I’ll take my oath there isn’t,” added Grandfer Cantle.

“All that can be said against mead is that ’tis rather heady, and

apt to lie about a man a good while. But tomorrow’s Sunday, thank

God.”


“I feel’d for all the world like some bold soldier after I had had

some once,” said Christian.


“You shall feel so again,” said Wildeve, with condescension,

“Cups or glasses, gentlemen?”


“Well, if you don’t mind, we’ll have the beaker, and pass

’en round; ’tis better than heling it out in dribbles.”


“Jown the slippery glasses,” said Grandfer Cantle.

“What’s the good of a thing that you can’t put down in the

mned. And that’s why, to share

them—” I faltered myself with the horror of it.


But my companion, with less imagination, kept me up. “To share

them—?”


“She wants Flora.” Mrs. Grose might, as I gave it to her, fairly

have fallen away from me had I not been prepared. I still held her there, to

show I was. “As I’ve told you, however, it doesn’t

matter.”


“Because you’ve made up your mind? But to what?”


“To everything.”


“And what do you call ‘everything’?”


“Why, sending for their uncle.”


“Oh, miss, in pity do,” my friend broke out. “ah, but I will,

I will! I see it’s the only way. What’s ‘out,’

as I told you, with Miles is that if he thinks I’m afraid to—and

has ideas of what he gains by that—he shall see he’s mistaken. Yes,

yes; his uncle shall have it here from me on the spot (and before the boy

himself, if necessary) that if I’m to be reproached with having done

nothing again about more school—”


“Yes, miss—” my companion pressed me.


“Well, there’s that awful reason.”


There were now clearly so many of these for my poor colleague that she was

excusable for being vague. “But—a—which?”


“Why, the letter from his old place.”


“You’ll show it to the master?”


“I ought to have done so on the instant.”


“Oh, no!” said Mrs. Grose with decision.


“I’ll put it before him,” I went on inexorably, “that I

can’t undertake to work the question on behalf of a child who has been

expelled—”


“For we’ve never in the least known what!” Mrs. Grose

declared.


“For wickedness. For what else—when he’s so clever and

beautiful and perfect? Is he stupid? Is he untidy? Is he infirm? Is he

ill-natured? He’s exquisite—so it can be only that; and that

would open up the whole thing. After all,” I said, “it’s

their uncle’s fault. If he left here such people—!”


“He didn’t really in the least know them. The fault’s

mine.” She had turned quite pale.


“Well, you shan’t suffer,” I answered.


“The children shan’t!” she emphatically returned.


I was silent awhile; we looked at each other. “Then what am I to tell

him?”


“You needn’t tell him anything. I’ll tell him.”


I measured this. “Do you mean you’ll write—?”

Remembering she couldn’t, I caught myself up. “How do you

communicate?”


“I tell the bailiff. He writes.”


“And should you like him to write our story?”


My question had a sarcastic force that I had not fully intended, and it made

her, after a moment, inconsequently break down. The tears were again in her

eyes. “Ah, miss, you write!”


“Well—tonight,” I at last answered; and on this we separated.


XVII


I went so far, in the evening, as to make a beginning. The weather had changed

back, a great wind was abroad, and beneath the lamp, in my room, with Flora at

peace beside me, I sat for a long time before a blank sheet of paper and

listened to the lash of the rain and the batter of the gusts. Finally I went

out, taking a candle; I crossed the passage and listened a minute at

Miles’s door. What, under my endless obsession, I had been impelled to

listen for was some betrayal of his not being at rest, and I presently caught

one, but not in the form I had expected. His voice tinkled out. “I say,

you there—come in.” It was a gaiety in the gloom!


I went in with my light and found him, in bed, very wide awake, but very much

at his ease. “Well, what are you up to?” he asked with a

grace of sociability in which it occurred to me that Mrs. Grose, had she been

present, might have looked in vain for proof that anything was

“out.”


I stood over him with my candle. “How did you know I was there?”


“Why, of course I heard you. Did you fancy you made no noise?

You’re like a troop of cavalry!” he beautifully laughed.


“Then you weren’t asleep?”


“Not much! I lie awake and think.”


I had put my candle, designedly, a short way off, and then, as he held out his

friendly old hand to me, had sat down on the edge of his bed. “What is

it,” I asked, “that you think of?”


“What in the world, my dear, but you?”


“Ah, the pride I take in your appreciation doesn’t insist on that!

I had so far rather you slept.”


“Well, I think also, you know, of this queer business of ours.”


I marked the coolness of his firm little hand. “Of what queer business,

Miles?”


“Why, the way you bring me up. And all the rest!”


I fairly held my breath a minute, and even from my glimmering taper there was

light enough to show how he smiled up at me from his pillow. “What do you

mean by all the rest?”


“Oh, you know, you know!”


I could say nothing for a minute, though I felt, as I held his hand and our

eyes continued to meet, that my silence had all the air of admitting his charge

and that nothing in the whole world of reality was perhaps at that moment so

fabulous as our actual relation. “Certainly you shall go back to

school,” I said, “if it be that that troubles you. But not to the

old place—we must find another, a better. How could I know it did trouble

you, this question, when you never told me so, never spoke of it at all?”

His clear, listening face, framed in its smooth whiteness, made him for the

minute as appealing as some wistful patient in a children’s hospital; and

I would have given, as the resemblance came to me, all I possessed on earth

really to be the nurse or the sister of charity who might have helped to cure

him. Well, even as it was, I perhaps might help! “Do you know

you’ve never said a word to me about your school—I mean the old

one; never mentioned it in any way?”


He seemed to wonder; he smiled with the same loveliness. But he clearly gained

time; he waited, he called for guidance. “Haven’t I?” It

wasn’t for me to help him—it was for the thing I had met!


Something in his tone and the expression of his face, as I got this from him,

set my heart aching with such a pang as it had never yet known; so unutterably

touching was it to see his little brain puzzled and his little resources taxed

to play, under the spell laid on him, a part of innocence and consistency.

“No, never—from the hour you came back. You’ve never

mentioned to me one of your masters, one of your comrades, nor the least little

thing that ever happened to you at school. Never, little Miles—no,

never—have you given me an inkling of anything that may have

happened there. Therefore you can fancy how much I’m in the dark. Until

you came out, that way, this morning, you had, since the first hour I saw you,

scarce even made a reference to anything in your previous life. You seemed so

perfectly to accept the present.” It was extraordinary how my absolute

conviction of his secret precocity (or whatever I might call the poison of an

influence that I dared but half to phrase) made him, in spite of the faint

breath of his inward trouble, appear as accessible as an older

person—imposed him almost as an intellectual equal. “I thought you

wanted to go on as you are.”


It struck me that at this he just faintly colored. He gave, at any rate, like a

convalescent slightly fatigued, a languid shake of his head. “I

don’t—I don’t. I want to get away.”


“You’re tired of Bly?”


“Oh, no, I like Bly.”


“Well, then—?”


“Oh, you know what a boy wants!”


I felt that I didn’t know so well as Miles, and I took temporary refuge.

“You want to go to your uncle?”


Again, at this, with his sweet ironic face, he made a movement on the pillow.

“Ah, you can’t get off with that!”


I was silent a little, and it was I, now, I think, who changed color. “My

dear, I don’t want to get off!”


“You can’t, even if you do. You can’t, you

can’t!”—he lay beautifully staring. “My uncle must come

down, and you must completely settle things.”


“If we do,” I returned with some spirit, “you may be sure it

will be to take you quite away.”


“Well, don’t you understand that that’s exactly what

I’m working for? You’ll have to tell him—about the way

you’ve let it all drop: you’ll have to tell him a tremendous

lot!”


The exultation with which he uttered this helped me somehow, for the instant,

to meet him rather more. “And how much will you, Miles, have to

tell him? There are things he’ll ask you!”


He turned it over. “Very likely. But what things?”


“The things you’ve never told me. To make up his mind what to do

with you. He can’t send you back—”


“Oh, I don’t want to go back!” he broke in. “I want a

new field.”


He said it with admirable serenity, with positive unimpeachable gaiety; and

doubtless it was that very note that most evoked for me the poignancy, the

unnatural childish tragedy, of his probable reappearance at the end of three

months with all this bravado and still more dishonor. It overwhelmed me now

that I should never be able to bear that, and it made me let myself go. I threw

myself upon him and in the tenderness of my pity I embraced him. “Dear

little Miles, dear little Miles—!”


My face was close to his, and he let me kiss him, simply taking it with

indulgent good humor. “Well, old lady?”


“Is there nothing—nothing at all that you want to tell me?”


He turned off a little, facing round toward the wall and holding up his hand to

look at as one had seen sick children look. “I’ve told you—I

told you this morning.”


Oh, I was sorry for him! “That you just want me not to worry you?”


He looked round at me now, as if in recognition of my understanding him; then

ever so gently, “To let me alone,” he replied.


There was even a singular little dignity in it, something that made me release

him, yet, when I had slowly risen, linger beside him. God knows I never wished

to harass him, but I felt that merely, at this, to turn my back on him was to

abandon or, to put it more truly, to lose him. “I’ve just begun a

letter to your uncle,” I said.


“Well, then, finish it!”


I waited a minute. “What happened before?”


He gazed up at me again. “Before what?”


“Before you came back. And before you went away.”


For some time he was silent, but he continued to meet my eyes. “What

happened?”


It made me, the sound of the words, in which it seemed to me that I caught for

the very first time a small faint quaver of consenting consciousness—it

made me drop on my knees beside the bed and seize once more the chance of

possessing him. “Dear little Miles, dear little Miles, if you knew

how I want to help you! It’s only that, it’s nothing but that, and

I’d rather die than give you a pain or do you a wrong—I’d

rather die than hurt a hair of you. Dear little Miles”—oh, I

brought it out now even if I should go too far—“I just want

you to help me to save you!” But I knew in a moment after this that I had

gone too far. The answer to my appeal was instantaneous, but it came in the

form of an extraordinary blast and chill, a gust of frozen air, and a shake of

the room as great as if, in the wild wind, the casement had crashed in. The boy

gave a loud, high shriek, which, lost in the rest of the shock of sound, might

have seemed, indistinctly, though I was so close to him, a note either of

jubilation or of terror. I jumped to my feet again and was conscious of

darkness. So for a moment we remained, while I stared about me and saw that the

drawn curtains were unstirred and the window tight. “Why, the

candle’s out!” I then cried.


“It was I who blew it, dear!” said Miles.


XVIII


The next day, after lessons, Mrs. Grose found a moment to say to me quietly:

“Have you written, miss?”


“Yes—I’ve written.” But I didn’t add—for

the hour—that my letter, sealed and directed, was still in my pocket.

There would be time enough to send it before the messenger should go to the

village. Meanwhile there had been, on the part of my pupils, no more brilliant,

more exemplary morning. It was exactly as if they had both had at heart to

gloss over any recent little friction. They performed the dizziest feats of

arithmetic, soaring quite out of my feeble range, and perpetrated, in

higher spirits than ever, geographical and historical jokes. It was conspicuous

of course in Miles in particular that he appeared to wish to show how easily he

could let me down. This child, to my memory, really lives in a setting of

beauty and misery that no words can translate; there was a distinction all his

own in every impulse he revealed; never was a small natural creature, to the

uninitiated eye all frankness and freedom, a more ingenious, a more

extraordinary little gentleman. I had perpetually to guard against the wonder

of contemplation into which my initiated view betrayed me; to check the

irrelevant gaze and discouraged sigh in which I constantly both attacked and

renounced the enigma of what such a little gentleman could have done that

deserved a penalty. Say that, by the dark prodigy I knew, the imagination of

all evil had been opened up to him: all the justice within me ached for

the proof that it could ever have flowered into an act.


He had never, at any rate, been such a little gentleman as when, after our

early dinner on this dreadful day, he came round to me and asked if I

shouldn’t like him, for half an hour, to play to me. David playing to

Saul could never have shown a finer sense of the occasion. It was literally a

charming exhibition of tact, of magnanimity, and quite tantamount to his saying

outright: “The true knights we love to read about never push an advantage

too far. I know what you mean now: you mean that—to be let alone yourself

and not followed up—you’ll cease to worry and spy upon me,

won’t keep me so close to you, will let me go and come. Well, I

‘come,’ you see—but I don’t go! There’ll be

plenty of time for that. I do really delight in your society, and I only want

to show you that I contended for a principle.” It may be imagined whether

I resisted this appeal or failed to accompany him again, hand in hand, to the

schoolroom. He sat down at the old piano and played as he had never played; and

if there are those who think he had better have been kicking a football I can

only say that I wholly agree with them. For at the end of a time that under his

influence I had quite ceased to measure, I started up with a strange sense of

having literally slept at my post. It was after luncheon, and by the schoolroom

fire, and yet I hadn’t really, in the least, slept: I had only done

something much worse—I had forgotten. Where, all this time, was Flora?

When I put the question to Miles, he played on a minute before answering and

then could only say: “Why, my dear, how do I

know?”—breaking moreover into a happy laugh which, immediately

after, as if it were a vocal accompaniment, he prolonged into incoherent,

extravagant song.


I went straight to my room, but his sister was not there; then, before going

downstairs, I looked into several others. As she was nowhere about she would

surely be with Mrs. Grose, whom, in the comfort of that theory, I accordingly

proceeded in quest of. I found her where I had found her the evening before,

but she met my quick challenge with blank, scared ignorance. She had only

supposed that, after the repast, I had carried off both the children; as to

which she was quite in her right, for it was the very first time I had allowed

the little girl out of my sight without some special provision. Of course now

indeed she might be with the maids, so that the immediate thing was to look for

her without an air of alarm. This we promptly arranged between us; but when,

ten minutes later and in pursuance of our arrangement, we met in the hall, it

was only to report on either side that after guarded inquiries we had

altogether failed to trace her. For a minute there, apart from observation, we

exchanged mute alarms, and I could feel with what high interest my friend

returned me all those I had from the first given her.


“She’ll be above,” she presently said—“in one of

the rooms you haven’t searched.”


“No; she’s at a distance.” I had made up my mind. “She

has gone out.”


Mrs. Grose stared. “Without a hat?”


I naturally also looked volumes. “Isn’t that woman always without

one?”


“She’s with her?”


“She’s with her!” I declared. “We must find

them.”


My hand was on my friend’s arm, but she failed for the moment, confronted

with such an account of the matter, to respond to my pressure. She communed, on

the contrary, on the spot, with her uneasiness. “And where’s Master

Miles?”


“Oh, he’s with Quint. They’re in the

schoolroom.”


“Lord, miss!” My view, I was myself aware—and therefore I

suppose my tone—had never yet reached so calm an assurance.


“The trick’s played,” I went on; “they’ve

successfully worked their plan. He found the most divine little way to keep me

quiet while she went off.”


“‘Divine’?” Mrs. Grose bewilderedly echoed.


“Infernal, then!” I almost cheerfully rejoined. “He has

provided for himself as well. But come!”


She had helplessly gloomed at the upper regions. “You leave

him—?”


“So long with Quint? Yes—I don’t mind that now.”


She always ended, at these moments, by getting possession of my hand, and in

this manner she could at present still stay me. But after gasping an instant at

my sudden resignation, “Because of your letter?” she eagerly

brought out.


I quickly, by way of answer, felt for my letter, drew it forth, held it up, and

then, freeing myself, went and laid it on the great hall table. “Luke

will take it,” I said as I came back. I reached the house door and opened

it; I was already on the steps.


My companion still demurred: the storm of the night and the early morning had

dropped, but the afternoon was damp and gray. I came down to the drive while

she stood in the doorway. “You go with nothing on?”


“What do I care when the child has nothing? I can’t wait to

dress,” I cried, “and if you must do so, I leave you. Try

meanwhile, yourself, upstairs.”


“With them?” Oh, on this, the poor woman promptly joined me!


XIX


We went straight to the lake, as it was called at Bly, and I daresay rightly

called, though I reflect that it may in fact have been a sheet of water less

remarkable than it appeared to my untraveled eyes. My acquaintance with sheets

of water was small, and the pool of Bly, at all events on the few occasions of

my consenting, under the protection of my pupils, to affront its surface in the

old flat-bottomed boat moored there for our use, had impressed me both with its

extent and its agitation. The usual place of embarkation was half a mile from

the house, but I had an intimate conviction that, wherever Flora might be, she

was not near home. She had not given me the slip for any small adventure, and,

since the day of the very great one that I had shared with her by the pond, I

had been aware, in our walks, of the quarter to which she most inclined. This

was why I had now given to Mrs. Grose’s steps so marked a

direction—a direction that made her, when she perceived it, oppose a

resistance that showed me she was freshly mystified. “You’re going

to the water, Miss?—you think she’s in—?”


“She may be, though the depth is, I believe, nowhere very great. But what

I judge most likely is that she’s on the spot from which, the other day,

we saw together what I told you.”


“When she pretended not to see—?”


“With that astoundi

 steed, “pay attention to what

I’m going to tell you. ‘Whoa!’ means to stop;

‘Get-Up!’ means to walk forward; ‘Trot!’ means to go as

fast as you can. Understand?”


“I believe I do,” returned the horse.


“Very good. We are all going on a journey to the Emerald City, to see His

Majesty, the Scarecrow; and Jack Pumpkinhead is going to ride on your back, so

he won’t wear out his joints.”


“I don’t mind,” said the Saw-Horse. “Anything that

suits you suits me.”


Then Tip assisted Jack to get upon the horse.


“Hold on tight,” he cautioned, “or you may fall off and crack

your pumpkin head.”


“That would be horrible!” said Jack, with a shudder. “What

shall I hold on to?”


“Why, hold on to his ears,” replied Tip, after a moment’s

hesitation.


“Don’t do that!” remonstrated the Saw-Horse; “for then

I can’t hear.”


That seemed reasonable, so Tip tried to think of something else.


“I’ll fix it!” said he, at length. He went into the wood and

cut a short length of limb from a young, stout tree. One end of this he

sharpened to a point, and then he dug a hole in the back of the Saw-Horse, just

behind its head. Next he brought a piece of rock from the road and hammered the

post firmly into the animal’s back.


“Stop! Stop!” shouted the horse; “you’re jarring me

terribly.”


image065


“Does it hurt?” asked the boy.


“Not exactly hurt,” answered the animal; “but it makes me

quite nervous to be jarred.”


“Well, it’s all over now” said Tip, encouragingly.

“Now, Jack, be sure to hold fast to this post and then you can’t

fall off and get smashed.”


So Jack held on tight, and Tip said to the horse:


“Get up.”


The obedient creature at once walked forward, rocking from side to side as he

raised his feet from the ground.


Tip walked beside the Saw-Horse, quite content with this addition to their

party. Presently he began to whistle.


“What does that sound mean?” asked the horse.


“Don’t pay any attention to it,” said Tip. “I’m

just whistling, and that only means I’m pretty well satisfied.”


“I’d whistle myself, if I could push my lips together,”

remarked Jack. “I fear, dear father, that in some respects I am sadly

lacking.”


image067


After journeying on for some distance the narrow path they were following

turned into a broad roadway, paved with yellow brick. By the side of the road

Tip noticed a sign-post that read:


“NINE MILES TO THE EMERALD CITY.”


But it was now growing dark, so he decided to camp for the night by the

roadside and to resume the journey next morning by daybreak. He led the

Saw-Horse to a grassy mound upon which grew several bushy trees, and carefully

assisted the Pumpkinhead to alight.


“I think I’ll lay you upon the ground, overnight,” said the

boy. “You will be safer that way.”


“How about me?” asked the Saw-Horse.


“It won’t hurt you to stand,” replied Tip; “and, as you

can’t sleep, you may as well watch out and see that no one comes near to

disturb us.”


Then the boy stretched himself upon the grass beside the Pumpkinhead, and being

greatly wearied by the journey was soon fast asleep.


image069


image070


image071


Jack Pumpkinhead’s Ride to the Emerald City


At daybreak Tip was awakened by the Pumpkinhead. He rubbed the sleep from his

eyes, bathed in a little brook, and then ate a portion of his bread and cheese.

Having thus prepared for a new day the boy said:


“Let us start at once. Nine miles is quite a distance, but we ought to

reach the Emerald City by noon if no accidents happen.” So the

Pumpkinhead was again perched upon the back of the Saw-Horse and the journey

was resumed.


Tip noticed that the purple tint of the grass and trees had now faded to a dull

lavender, and before long this lavender appeared to take on a greenish tinge

that gradually brightened as they drew nearer to the great City where the

Scarecrow ruled.


The little party had traveled but a short two miles upon their way when the

road of yellow brick was parted by a broad and swift river. Tip was puzzled how

to cross over; but after a time he discovered a man in a ferry-boat approaching

from the other side of the stream.


When the man reached the bank Tip asked:


“Will you row us to the other side?”


“Yes, if you have money,” returned the ferryman, whose face looked

cross and disagreeable.


“But I have no money,” said Tip.


“None at all?” inquired the man.


“None at all,” answered the boy.


“Then I’ll not break my back rowing you over,” said the

ferryman, decidedly.


“What a nice man!” remarked the Pumpkinhead, smilingly.


The ferryman stared at him, but made no reply. Tip was trying to think, for it

was a great disappointment to him to find his journey so suddenly brought to an

end.


“I must certainly get to the Emerald City,” he said to the boatman;

“but how can I cross the river if you do not take me?”


The man laughed, and it was not a nice laugh.


“That wooden horse will float,” said he; “and you can ride

him across. As for the pumpkinheaded loon who accompanies you, let him sink or

swim it won’t matter greatly which.”


image073


“Don’t worry about me,” said Jack, smiling pleasantly upon

the crabbed ferryman; “I’m sure I ought to float

beautifully.”


Tip thought the experiment was worth making, and the Saw-Horse, who did not

know what danger meant, offered no objections whatever. So the boy led it down

into the water and climbed upon its back. Jack also waded in up to his knees

and grasped the tail of the horse so that he might keep his pumpkin head above

the water.


“Now,” said Tip, instructing the Saw-Horse, “if you wiggle

your legs you will probably swim; and if you swim we shall probably reach the

other side.”


The Saw-Horse at once began to wiggle its legs, which acted as oars and moved

the adventurers slowly across the river to the opposite side. So successful was

the trip that presently they were climbing, wet and dripping, up the grassy

bank.


Tip’s trouser-legs and shoes were thoroughly soaked; but the Saw-Horse

had floated so perfectly that from his knees up the boy was entirely dry. As

for the Pumpkinhead, every stitch of his gorgeous clothing dripped water.


“The sun will soon dry us,” said Tip “and, anyhow, we are now

safely across, in spite of the ferryman, and can continue our journey.”


“I didn’t mind swimming, at all,” remarked the horse.


“Nor did I,” added Jack.


They soon regained the road of yellow brick, which proved to be a continuation

of the road they had left on the other side, and then Tip once more mounted the

Pumpkinhead upon the back of the Saw-Horse.


“If you ride fast,” said he, “the wind will help to dry your

clothing. I will hold on to the horse’s tail and run after you. In this

way we all will become dry in a very short time.”


“Then the horse must step lively,” said Jack.


“I’ll do my best,” returned the Saw-Horse, cheerfully.


Tip grasped the end of the branch that served as tail to the Saw-Horse, and

called loudly: “Get-up!”


The horse started at a good pace, and Tip followed behind. Then he decided they

could go faster, so he shouted: “Trot!”


image075


Now, the Saw-Horse remembered that this word was the command to go as fast as

he could; so he began rocking along the road at a tremendous pace, and Tip had

hard work—running faster than he ever had before in his life—to

keep his feet.


Soon he was out of breath, and although he wanted to call “Whoa!”

to the horse, he found he could not get the word out of his throat. Then the

end of the tail he was clutching, being nothing more than a dead branch,

suddenly broke away, and the next minute the boy was rolling in the dust of the

road, while the horse and its pumpkin-headed rider dashed on and quickly

disappeared in the distance.


By the time Tip had picked himself up and cleared the dust from his throat so

he could say “Whoa!” there was no further need of saying it, for

the horse was long since out of sight.


So he did the only sensible thing he could do. He sat down and took a good

rest, and afterward began walking along the road.


“Some time I will surely overtake them,” he reflected; “for

the road will end at the gates of the Emerald City, and they can go no further

than that.”


Meantime Jack was holding fast to the post and the Saw-Horse was tearing along

the road like a racer. Neither of them knew Tip was left behind, for the

Pumpkinhead did not look around and the Saw-Horse couldn’t.


As he rode, Jack noticed that the grass and trees had become a bright

emerald-green in color, so he guessed they were nearing the Emerald City even

before the tall spires and domes came into sight.


At length a high wall of green stone, studded thick with emeralds, loomed up

before them; and fearing the Saw-Horse would not know enough to stop and so

might smash them both against this wall, Jack ventured to cry

“Whoa!” as loud as he could.


So suddenly did the horse obey that had it not been for his post Jack would

have been pitched off head foremost, and his beautiful face ruined.


“That was a fast ride, dear father!” he exclaimed; and then,

hearing no reply, he turned around and discovered for the first time that Tip

was not there.


This apparent desertion puzzled the Pumpkinhead, and made him uneasy. And while

he was wondering what had become of the boy, and what he ought to do next under

such trying circumstances, the gateway in the green wall opened and a man came

out.


This man was short and round, with a fat face that seemed remarkably

good-natured. He was clothed all in green and wore a high, peaked green hat

upon his head and green spectacles over his eyes. Bowing before the Pumpkinhead

he said:


“I am the Guardian of the Gates of the Emerald City. May I inquire who

you are, and what is your business?”


“My name is Jack Pumpkinhead,” returned the other, smilingly;

“but as to my business, I haven’t the least idea in the world what

it is.”


The Guardian of the Gates looked surprised, and shook his head as if

dissatisfied with the reply.


“What are you, a man or a pumpkin?” he asked, politely.


“Both, if you please,” answered Jack.


“And this wooden horse—is it alive?” questioned the Guardian.


The horse rolled one knotty eye upward and winked at Jack. Then it gave a

prance and brought one leg down on the Guardian’s toes.


“Ouch!” cried the man; “I’m sorry I asked that

question. But the answer is most convincing. Have you any errand, sir, in the

Emerald City?”


“It seems to me that I have,” replied the Pumpkinhead, seriously;

“but I cannot think what it is. My father knows all about it, but he is

not here.”


“This is a strange affair very strange!” declared the Guardian.

“But you seem harmless. Folks do not smile so delightfully when they mean

mischief.”


“As for that,” said Jack, “I cannot help my smile, for it is

carved on my face with a jack-knife.”


“Well, come with me into my room,” resumed the Guardian, “and

I will see what can be done for you.”


So Jack rode the Saw-Horse through the gateway into a little room built into

the wall. The Guardian pulled a bell-cord, and presently a very tall

soldier—clothed in a green uniform—entered from the opposite door.

This soldier carried a long green gun over his shoulder and had lovely green

whiskers that fell quite to his knees. The Guardian at once addressed him,

saying:


“Here is a strange gentleman who doesn’t know why he has come to

the Emerald City, or what he wants. Tell me, what shall we do with him?”


The Soldier with the Green Whiskers looked at Jack with much care and

curiosity. Finally he shook his head so positively that little waves rippled

down his whiskers, and then he said:


“I must take him to His Majesty, the Scarecrow.”


“But what will His Majesty, the Scarecrow, do with him?” asked the

Guardian of the Gates.


“That is His Majesty’s business,” returned the soldier.

“I have troubles enough of my own. All outside troubles must be turned

over to His Majesty. So put the spectacles on this fellow, and I’ll take

him to the royal palace.”


So the Guardian opened a big box of spectacles and tried to fit a pair to

Jack’s great round eyes.


“I haven’t a pair in stock that will really cover those eyes

up,” said the little man, with a sigh; “and your head is so big

that I shall be obliged to tie the spectacles on.”


“But why need I wear spectacles?” asked Jack.


image081


“It’s the fashion here,” said the Soldier, “and they

will keep you from being blinded by the glitter and glare of the gorgeous

Emerald City.”


“Oh!” exclaimed Jack. “Tie them on, by all means. I

don’t wish to be blinded.”


“Nor I!” broke in the Saw-Horse; so a pair of green spectacles was

quickly fastened over the bulging knots that served it for eyes.


Then the Soldier with the Green Whiskers led them through the inner gate and

they at once found themselves in the main street of the magnificent Emerald

City.


Sparkling green gems ornamented the fronts of the beautiful houses and the

towers and turrets were all faced with emeralds. Even the green marble pavement

glittered with precious stones, and it was indeed a grand and marvelous sight

to one who beheld it for the first time.


However, the Pumpkinhead and the Saw-Horse, knowing nothing of wealth and

beauty, paid little attention to the wonderful sights they saw through their

green spectacles. They calmly followed after the green soldier and scarcely

noticed the crowds of green people who stared at them in surprise. When a green

dog ran out and barked at them the Saw-Horse promptly kicked at it with its

wooden leg and sent the little animal howling into one of the houses; but

nothing more serious than this happened to interrupt their progress to the

royal palace.


The Pumpkinhead wanted to ride up the green marble steps and straight into the

Scarecrow’s presence; but the soldier would not permit that. So Jack

dismounted, with much difficulty, and a servant led the Saw-Horse around to the

rear while the Soldier with the Green Whiskers escorted the Pumpkinhead into

the palace, by the front entrance.


The stranger was left in a handsomely furnished waiting room while the soldier

went to announce him. It so happened that at this hour His Majesty was at

leisure and greatly bored for want of something to do, so he ordered his

visitor to be shown at once into his throne room.


Jack felt no fear or embarrassment at meeting the ruler of this magnificent

city, for he was entirely ignorant of all worldly customs. But when he entered

the room and saw for the first time His Majesty the Scarecrow seated upon his

glittering throne, he stopped short in amazement.


image084


image085


His Majesty the Scarecrow


I suppose every reader of this book knows what a scarecrow is; but Jack

Pumpkinhead, never having seen such a creation, was more surprised at meeting

the remarkable King of the Emerald City than by any other one experience of his

brief life.


His Majesty the Scarecrow was dressed in a suit of faded blue clothes, and his

head was merely a small sack stuffed with straw, upon which eyes, ears, a nose

and a mouth had been rudely painted to represent a face. The clothes were also

stuffed with straw, and that so unevenly or carelessly that his Majesty’s

legs and arms seemed more bumpy than was necessary. Upon his hands were gloves

with long fingers, and these were padded with cotton. Wisps of straw stuck out

from the monarch’s coat and also from his neck and boot-tops. Upon his

head he wore a heavy golden crown set thick with sparkling jewels, and the

weight of this crown caused his brow to sag in wrinkles, giving a thoughtful

expression to the painted face. Indeed, the crown alone betokened majesty; in

all else the, Scarecrow King was but a simple scarecrow—flimsy, awkward,

and unsubstantial.


But if the strange appearance of his Majesty the Scarecrow seemed startling to

Jack, no less wonderful was the form of the Pumpkinhead to the Scarecrow. The

purple trousers and pink waistcoat and red shirt hung loosely over the wooden

joints Tip had manufactured, and the carved face on the pumpkin grinned

perpetually, as if its wearer considered life the jolliest thing imaginable.


At first, indeed, His Majesty thought his queer visitor was laughing at him,

and was inclined to resent such a liberty; but it was not without reason that

the Scarecrow had attained the reputation of being the wisest personage in the

Land of Oz. He made a more careful examination of his visitor, and soon

discovered that Jack’s features were carved into a smile and that he

could not look grave if he wished to.


image087


The King was the first to speak. After regarding Jack for some minutes he said,

in a tone of wonder:


“Where on earth did you come from, and how do you happen to be

alive?”


“I beg your Majesty’s pardon,” returned the Pumpkinhead;

“but I do not understand you.”


“What don’t you understand?” asked the Scarecrow.


“Why, I don’t understand your language. You see, I came from the

Country of the Gillikins, so that I am a foreigner.”


“Ah, to be sure!” exclaimed the Scarecrow. “I myself speak

the language of the Munchkins, which is also the language of the Emerald City.

But you, I suppose, speak the language of the Pumpkinheads?”


“Exactly so, your Majesty” replied the other, bowing; “so it

will be impossible for us to understand one another.”


“That is unfortunate, certainly,” said the Scarecrow, thoughtfully.

“We must have an interpreter.”


“What is an interpreter?” asked Jack.


“A person who understands both my language and your own. When I say

anything, the interpreter can tell you what I mean; and when you say anything

the interpreter can tell me what you mean. For the interpreter can speak

both languages as well as understand them.”


“That is certainly clever,” said Jack, greatly pleased at finding

so simple a way out of the difficulty.


So the Scarecrow commanded the Soldier with the Green Whiskers to search among

his people until he found one who understood the language of the Gillikins as

well as the language of the Emerald City, and to bring that person to him at

once.


When the Soldier had departed the Scarecrow said:


“Won’t you take a chair while we are waiting?”


image090


“Your Majesty forgets that I cannot understand you,” replied the

Pumpkinhead. “If you wish me to sit down you must make a sign for me to

do so.” The Scarecrow came down from his throne and rolled an armchair to

a position behind the Pumpkinhead. Then he gave Jack a sudden push that sent

him sprawling upon the cushions in so awkward a fashion that he doubled up like

a jackknife, and had hard work to untangle himself.


“Did you understand that sign?” asked His Majesty, politely.


“Perfectly,” declared Jack, reaching up his arms to turn his head

to the front, the pumpkin having twisted around upon the stick that supported

it.


“You seem hastily made,” remarked the Scarecrow, watching

Jack’s efforts to straighten himself.


“Not more so than your Majesty,” was the frank reply.


“There is this difference between us,” said the

s conversation.”


Anne half smiled and said, “Do you see that in my eye?”


“Yes, I do. Your countenance perfectly informs me that you were in

company last night with the person whom you think the most agreeable in the

world, the person who interests you at this present time more than all the rest

of the world put together.”


A blush overspread Anne’s cheeks. She could say nothing.


“And such being the case,” continued Mrs Smith, after a short

pause, “I hope you believe that I do know how to value your kindness in

coming to me this morning. It is really very good of you to come and sit with

me, when you must have so many pleasanter demands upon your time.”


Anne heard nothing of this. She was still in the astonishment and confusion

excited by her friend’s penetration, unable to imagine how any report of

Captain Wentworth could have reached her. After another short silence—


“Pray,” said Mrs Smith, “is Mr Elliot aware of your

acquaintance with me? Does he know that I am in Bath?”


“Mr Elliot!” repeated Anne, looking up surprised. A moment’s

reflection shewed her the mistake she had been under. She caught it

instantaneously; and recovering her courage with the feeling of safety, soon

added, more composedly, “Are you acquainted with Mr Elliot?”


“I have been a good deal acquainted with him,” replied Mrs Smith,

gravely, “but it seems worn out now. It is a great while since we

met.”


“I was not at all aware of this. You never mentioned it before. Had I

known it, I would have had the pleasure of talking to him about you.”


“To confess the truth,” said Mrs Smith, assuming her usual air of

cheerfulness, “that is exactly the pleasure I want you to have. I want

you to talk about me to Mr Elliot. I want your interest with him. He can be of

essential service to me; and if you would have the goodness, my dear Miss

Elliot, to make it an object to yourself, of course it is done.”


“I should be extremely happy; I hope you cannot doubt my willingness to

be of even the slightest use to you,” replied Anne; “but I suspect

that you are considering me as having a higher claim on Mr Elliot, a greater

right to influence him, than is really the case. I am sure you have, somehow or

other, imbibed such a notion. You must consider me only as Mr Elliot’s

relation. If in that light there is anything which you suppose his cousin might

fairly ask of him, I beg you would not hesitate to employ me.”


Mrs Smith gave her a penetrating glance, and then, smiling, said—


“I have been a little premature, I perceive; I beg your pardon. I ought

to have waited for official information. But now, my dear Miss Elliot, as an

old friend, do give me a hint as to when I may speak. Next week? To be sure by

next week I may be allowed to think it all settled, and build my own selfish

schemes on Mr Elliot’s good fortune.”


“No,” replied Anne, “nor next week, nor next, nor next. I

assure you that nothing of the sort you are thinking of will be settled any

week. I am not going to marry Mr Elliot. I should like to know why you imagine

I am?”


Mrs Smith looked at her again, looked earnestly, smiled, shook her head, and

exclaimed—


“Now, how I do wish I understood you! How I do wish I knew what you were

at! I have a great idea that you do not design to be cruel, when the right

moment occurs. Till it does come, you know, we women never mean to have

anybody. It is a thing of course among us, that every man is refused, till he

offers. But why should you be cruel? Let me plead for my—present friend I

cannot call him, but for my former friend. Where can you look for a more

suitable match? Where could you expect a more gentlemanlike, agreeable man? Let

me recommend Mr Elliot. I am sure you hear nothing but good of him from Colonel

Wallis; and who can know him better than Colonel Wallis?”


“My dear Mrs Smith, Mr Elliot’s wife has not been dead much above

half a year. He ought not to be supposed to be paying his addresses to any

one.”


“Oh! if these are your only objections,” cried Mrs Smith, archly,

“Mr Elliot is safe, and I shall give myself no more trouble about him. Do

not forget me when you are married, that’s all. Let him know me to be a

friend of yours, and then he will think little of the trouble required, which

it is very natural for him now, with so many affairs and engagements of his

own, to avoid and get rid of as he can; very natural, perhaps. Ninety-nine out

of a hundred would do the same. Of course, he cannot be aware of the importance

to me. Well, my dear Miss Elliot, I hope and trust you will be very happy. Mr

Elliot has sense to understand the value of such a woman. Your peace will not

be shipwrecked as mine has been. You are safe in all worldly matters, and safe

in his character. He will not be led astray; he will not be misled by others to

his ruin.”


“No,” said Anne, “I can readily believe all that of my

cousin. He seems to have a calm decided temper, not at all open to dangerous

impressions. I consider him with great respect. I have no reason, from any

thing that has fallen within my observation, to do otherwise. But I have not

known him long; and he is not a man, I think, to be known intimately soon. Will

not this manner of speaking of him, Mrs Smith, convince you that he is nothing

to me? Surely this must be calm enough. And, upon my word, he is nothing to me.

Should he ever propose to me (which I have very little reason to imagine he has

any thought of doing), I shall not accept him. I assure you I shall not. I

assure you, Mr Elliot had not the share which you have been supposing, in

whatever pleasure the concert of last night might afford: not Mr Elliot; it is

not Mr Elliot that—”


She stopped, regretting with a deep blush that she had implied so much; but

less would hardly have been sufficient. Mrs Smith would hardly have believed so

soon in Mr Elliot’s failure, but from the perception of there being a

somebody else. As it was, she instantly submitted, and with all the semblance

of seeing nothing beyond; and Anne, eager to escape farther notice, was

impatient to know why Mrs Smith should have fancied she was to marry Mr Elliot;

where she could have received the idea, or from whom she could have heard it.


“Do tell me how it first came into your head.”


“It first came into my head,” replied Mrs Smith, “upon

finding how much you were together, and feeling it to be the most probable

thing in the world to be wished for by everybody belonging to either of you;

and you may depend upon it that all your acquaintance have disposed of you in

the same way. But I never heard it spoken of till two days ago.”


“And has it indeed been spoken of?”


“Did you observe the woman who opened the door to you when you called

yesterday?”


“No. Was not it Mrs Speed, as usual, or the maid? I observed no one in

particular.”


“It was my friend Mrs Rooke; Nurse Rooke; who, by-the-bye, had a great

curiosity to see you, and was delighted to be in the way to let you in. She

came away from Marlborough Buildings only on Sunday; and she it was who told me

you were to marry Mr Elliot. She had had it from Mrs Wallis herself, which did

not seem bad authority. She sat an hour with me on Monday evening, and gave me

the whole history.” “The whole history,” repeated Anne,

laughing. “She could not make a very long history, I think, of one such

little article of unfounded news.”


Mrs Smith said nothing.


“But,” continued Anne, presently, “though there is no truth

in my having this claim on Mr Elliot, I should be extremely happy to be of use

to you in any way that I could. Shall I mention to him your being in Bath?

Shall I take any message?”


“No, I thank you: no, certainly not. In the warmth of the moment, and

under a mistaken impression, I might, perhaps, have endeavoured to interest you

in some circumstances; but not now. No, I thank you, I have nothing to trouble

you with.”


“I think you spoke of having known Mr Elliot many years?”


“I did.”


“Not before he was married, I suppose?”


“Yes; he was not married when I knew him first.”


“And—were you much acquainted?”


“Intimately.”


“Indeed! Then do tell me what he was at that time of life. I have a great

curiosity to know what Mr Elliot was as a very young man. Was he at all such as

he appears now?”


“I have not seen Mr Elliot these three years,” was Mrs

Smith’s answer, given so gravely that it was impossible to pursue the

subject farther; and Anne felt that she had gained nothing but an increase of

curiosity. They were both silent: Mrs Smith very thoughtful. At last—


“I beg your pardon, my dear Miss Elliot,” she cried, in her natural

tone of cordiality, “I beg your pardon for the short answers I have been

giving you, but I have been uncertain what I ought to do. I have been doubting

and considering as to what I ought to tell you. There were many things to be

taken into the account. One hates to be officious, to be giving bad

impressions, making mischief. Even the smooth surface of family-union seems

worth preserving, though there may be nothing durable beneath. However, I have

determined; I think I am right; I think you ought to be made acquainted with Mr

Elliot’s real character. Though I fully believe that, at present, you

have not the smallest intention of accepting him, there is no saying what may

happen. You might, some time or other, be differently affected towards him.

Hear the truth, therefore, now, while you are unprejudiced. Mr Elliot is a man

without heart or conscience; a designing, wary, cold-blooded being, who thinks

only of himself; whom for his own interest or ease, would be guilty of any

cruelty, or any treachery, that could be perpetrated without risk of his

general character. He has no feeling for others. Those whom he has been the

chief cause of leading into ruin, he can neglect and desert without the

smallest compunction. He is totally beyond the reach of any sentiment of

justice or compassion. Oh! he is black at heart, hollow and black!”


Anne’s astonished air, and exclamation of wonder, made her pause, and in

a calmer manner, she added,


“My expressions startle you. You must allow for an injured, angry woman.

But I will try to command myself. I will not abuse him. I will only tell you

what I have found him. Facts shall speak. He was the intimate friend of my dear

husband, who trusted and loved him, and thought him as good as himself. The

intimacy had been formed before our marriage. I found them most intimate

friends; and I, too, became excessively pleased with Mr Elliot, and entertained

the highest opinion of him. At nineteen, you know, one does not think very

seriously; but Mr Elliot appeared to me quite as good as others, and much more

agreeable than most others, and we were almost always together. We were

principally in town, living in very good style. He was then the inferior in

circumstances; he was then the poor one; he had chambers in the Temple, and it

was as much as he could do to support the appearance of a gentleman. He had

always a home with us whenever he chose it; he was always welcome; he was like

a brother. My poor Charles, who had the finest, most generous spirit in the

world, would have divided his last farthing with him; and I know that his purse

was open to him; I know that he often assisted him.”


“This must have been about that very period of Mr Elliot’s

life,” said Anne, “which has always excited my particular

curiosity. It must have been about the same time that he became known to my

father and sister. I never knew him myself; I only heard of him; but there was

a something in his conduct then, with regard to my father and sister, and

afterwards in the circumstances of his marriage, which I never could quite

reconcile with present times. It seemed to announce a different sort of

man.”


“I know it all, I know it all,” cried Mrs Smith. “He had been

introduced to Sir Walter and your sister before I was acquainted with him, but

I heard him speak of them for ever. I know he was invited and encouraged, and I

know he did not choose to go. I can satisfy you, perhaps, on points which you

would little expect; and as to his marriage, I knew all about it at the time. I

was privy to all the fors and againsts; I was the friend to whom he confided

his hopes and plans; and though I did not know his wife previously, her

inferior situation in society, indeed, rendered that impossible, yet I knew her

all her life afterwards, or at least till within the last two years of her

life, and can answer any question you may wish to put.”


“Nay,” said Anne, “I have no particular enquiry to make about

her. I have always understood they were not a happy couple. But I should like

to know why, at that time of his life, he should slight my father’s

acquaintance as he did. My father was certainly disposed to take very kind and

proper notice of him. Why did Mr Elliot draw back?”


“Mr Elliot,” replied Mrs Smith, “at that period of his life,

had one object in view: to make his fortune, and by a rather quicker process

than the law. He was determined to make it by marriage. He was determined, at

least, not to mar it by an imprudent marriage; and I know it was his belief

(whether justly or not, of course I cannot decide), that your father and

sister, in their civilities and invitations, were designing a match between the

heir and the young lady, and it was impossible that such a match should have

answered his ideas of wealth and independence. That was his motive for drawing

back, I can assure you. He told me the whole story. He had no concealments with

me. It was curious, that having just left you behind me in Bath, my first and

principal acquaintance on marrying should be your cousin; and that, through

him, I should be continually hearing of your father and sister. He described

one Miss Elliot, and I thought very affectionately of the other.”


“Perhaps,” cried Anne, struck by a sudden idea, “you

sometimes spoke of me to Mr Elliot?”


“To be sure I did; very often. I used to boast of my own Anne Elliot, and

vouch for your being a very different creature from—”


She checked herself just in time.


“This accounts for something which Mr Elliot said last night,”

cried Anne. “This explains it. I found he had been used to hear of me. I

could not comprehend how. What wild imaginations one forms where dear self is

concerned! How sure to be mistaken! But I beg your pardon; I have interrupted

you. Mr Elliot married then completely for money? The circumstances, probably,

which first opened your eyes to his character.”


Mrs Smith hesitated a little here. “Oh! those things are too common. When

one lives in the world, a man or woman’s marrying for money is too common

to strike one as it ought. I was very young, and associated only with the

young, and we were a thoughtless, gay set, without any strict rules of conduct.

We lived for enjoyment. I think differently now; time and sickness and sorrow

have given me other notions; but at that period I must own I saw nothing

reprehensible in what Mr Elliot was doing. ‘To do the best for

himself,’ passed as a duty.”


“But was not she a very low woman?”


“Yes; which I objected to, but he would not regard. Money, money, was all

that he wanted. Her father was a grazier, her grandfather had been a butcher,

but that was all nothing. She was a fine woman, had had a decent education, was

brought forward by some cousins, thrown by chance into Mr Elliot’s

company, and fell in love with him; and not a difficulty or a scruple was there

on his side, with respect to her birth. All his caution was spent in being

secured of the real amount of her fortune, before he committed himself. Depend

upon it, whatever esteem Mr Elliot may have for his own situation in life now,

as a young man he had not the smallest value for it. His chance for the

Kellynch estate was something, but all the honour of the family he held as

cheap as dirt. I have often heard him declare, that if baronetcies were

saleable, anybody should have his for fifty pounds, arms and motto, name and

livery included; but I will not pretend to repeat half that I used to hear him

say on that subject. It would not be fair; and yet you ought to have proof, for

what is all this but assertion, and you shall have proof.”


“Indeed, my dear Mrs Smith, I want none,” cried Anne. “You

have asserted nothing contradictory to what Mr Elliot appeared to be some years

ago. This is all in confirmation, rather, of what we used to hear and believe.

I am more curious to know why he should be so different now.”


“But for my satisfaction, if you will have the goodness to ring for Mary;

stay: I am sure you will have the still greater goodness of going yourself into

my bedroom, and bringing me the small inlaid box which you will find on the

upper shelf of the closet.”


Anne, seeing her friend to be earnestly bent on it, did as she was desired. The

box was brought and placed before her, and Mrs Smith, sighing over it as she

unlocked it, said—


“This is full of papers belonging to him, to my husband; a small portion

only of what I had to look over when I lost him. The letter I am looking for

was one written by Mr Elliot to him before our marriage, and happened to be

saved; why, one can hardly imagine. But he was careless and immethodical, like

other men, about those things; and when I came to examine his papers, I found

it with others still more trivial, from different people scattered here and

there, while many letters and memorandums of real importance had been

destroyed. Here it is; I would not burn it, because being even then very little

satisfied with Mr Elliot, I was determined to preserve every document of former

intimacy. I have now another motive for being glad that I can produce

it.”


This was the letter, directed to “Charles Smith, Esq. Tunbridge

Wells,” and dated from London, as far back as July, 1803:—


“Dear Smith,


“I have received yours. Your kindness almost overpowers me. I wish nature

had made such hearts as yours more common, but I have lived three-and-twenty

years in the world, and have seen none like it. At present, believe me, I have

no need of your services, being in cash again. Give me joy: I have got rid of

Sir Walter and Miss. They are gone back to Kellynch, and almost made me swear

to visit them this summer; but my first visit to Kellynch will be with a

surveyor, to tell me how to bring it with best advantage to the hammer. The

baronet, nevertheless, is not unlikely to marry again; he is quite fool enough.

If he does, however, they will leave me in peace, which may be a decent

equivalent for the reversion. He is worse than last year.


“I wish I had any name but Elliot. I am sick of it. The name of Walter I

can drop, thank God! and I desire you will never insult me with my second W.

again, meaning, for the rest of my life, to be only yours truly,


“WM. ELLIOT.”


Such a letter could not be read without putting Anne in a glow; and Mrs Smith,

observing the high colour in her face, said—


“The language, I know, is highly disrespectful. Though I have forgot the

exact terms, I have a perfect impression of the general meaning. But it shows

you the man. Mark his professions to my poor 

swear the

fellow smiled, though he hid the smile in an instant.


“So Mr. Detchard is in the secret,” thought I.


Having got rid of my dear brother and his friends, I returned to make my adieu

to my cousin. She was standing at the door. I bade her farewell, taking her

hand in mine.


“Rudolf,” she said, very low, “be careful, won’t you?”


“Of what?”


“You know—I can’t say. But think what your life is to—”


“Well to—?”


“To Ruritania.”


Was I right to play the part, or wrong to play the part? I know not: evil lay

both ways, and I dared not tell her the truth.


“Only to Ruritania?” I asked softly.


A sudden flush spread over her incomparable face.


“To your friends, too,” she said.


“Friends?”


“And to your cousin,” she whispered, “and loving servant.”


I could not speak. I kissed her hand, and went out cursing myself.


Outside I found Master Fritz, quite reckless of the footmen, playing at

cat’s-cradle with the Countess Helga.


“Hang it!” said he, “we can’t always be plotting. Love claims his share.”


“I’m inclined to think he does,” said I; and Fritz, who had been by my side,

dropped respectfully behind.


CHAPTER 9

A New Use for a Tea-table


If I were to detail the ordinary events of my daily life at this time, they

might prove instructive to people who are not familiar with the inside of

palaces; if I revealed some of the secrets I learnt, they might prove of

interest to the statesmen of Europe. I intend to do neither of these things. I

should be between the Scylla of dullness and the Charybdis of indiscretion, and

I feel that I had far better confine myself strictly to the underground drama

which was being played beneath the surface of Ruritanian politics. I need only

say that the secret of my imposture defied detection. I made mistakes. I had

bad minutes: it needed all the tact and graciousness whereof I was master to

smooth over some apparent lapses of memory and unmindfulness of old

acquaintances of which I was guilty. But I escaped, and I attribute my escape,

as I have said before, most of all, to the very audacity of the enterprise. It

is my belief that, given the necessary physical likeness, it was far easier to

pretend to be King of Ruritania than it would have been to personate my

next-door neighbour. One day Sapt came into my room. He threw me a letter,

saying:


“That’s for you—a woman’s hand, I think. But I’ve some news for you first.”


“What’s that?”


“The King’s at the Castle of Zenda,” said he.


“How do you know?”


“Because the other half of Michael’s Six are there. I had enquiries made, and

they’re all there—Lauengram, Krafstein, and young Rupert Hentzau: three rogues,

too, on my honour, as fine as live in Ruritania.”


“Well?”


“Well, Fritz wants you to march to the Castle with horse, foot, and artillery.”


“And drag the moat?” I asked.


“That would be about it,” grinned Sapt, “and we shouldn’t find the King’s body

then.”


“You think it’s certain he’s there?”


“Very probable. Besides the fact of those three being there, the drawbridge is

kept up, and no one goes in without an order from young Hentzau or Black

Michael himself. We must tie Fritz up.”


“I’ll go to Zenda,” said I.


“You’re mad.”


“Some day.”


“Oh, perhaps. You’ll very likely stay there though, if you do.”


“That may be, my friend,” said I carelessly.


“His Majesty looks sulky,” observed Sapt. “How’s the love affair?”


“Damn you, hold your tongue!” I said.


He looked at me for a moment, then he lit his pipe. It was quite true that I

was in a bad temper, and I went on perversely:


“Wherever I go, I’m dogged by half a dozen fellows.”


“I know you are; I send ’em,” he replied composedly.


“What for?”


“Well,” said Sapt, puffing away, “it wouldn’t be exactly inconvenient for Black

Michael if you disappeared. With you gone, the old game that we stopped would

be played—or he’d have a shot at it.”


“I can take care of myself.”


“De Gautet, Bersonin, and Detchard are in Strelsau; and any one of them, lad,

would cut your throat as readily—as readily as I would Black Michael’s, and a

deal more treacherously. What’s the letter?”


I opened it and read it aloud:


“If the King desires to know what it deeply concerns the King to know, let him

do as this letter bids him. At the end of the New Avenue there stands a house

in large grounds. The house has a portico, with a statue of a nymph on it. A

wall encloses the garden; there is a gate in the wall at the back. At twelve

o’clock tonight, if the King enters alone by that gate, turns to the right, and

walks twenty yards, he will find a summerhouse, approached by a flight of six

steps. If he mounts and enters, he will find someone who will tell him what

touches most dearly his life and his throne. This is written by a faithful

friend. He must be alone. If he neglects the invitation his life will be in

danger. Let him show this to no one, or he will ruin a woman who loves him:

Black Michael does not pardon.”


“No,” observed Sapt, as I ended, “but he can dictate a very pretty letter.”


I had arrived at the same conclusion, and was about to throw the letter away,

when I saw there was more writing on the other side.


“Hallo! there’s some more.”


“If you hesitate,” the writer continued, “consult Colonel Sapt—”


“Eh,” exclaimed that gentleman, genuinely astonished. “Does she take me for a

greater fool than you?”


I waved to him to be silent.


“Ask him what woman would do most to prevent the duke from marrying his cousin,

and therefore most to prevent him becoming king? And ask if her name begins

with—A?”


I sprang to my feet. Sapt laid down his pipe.


“Antoinette de Mauban, by heaven!” I cried.


“How do you know?” asked Sapt.


I told him what I knew of the lady, and how I knew it. He nodded.


“It’s so far true that she’s had a great row with Michael,” said he,

thoughtfully.


“If she would, she could be useful,” I said.


“I believe, though, that Michael wrote that letter.”


“So do I, but I mean to know for certain. I shall go, Sapt.”


“No, I shall go,” said he.


“You may go as far as the gate.”


“I shall go to the summer-house.”


“I’m hanged if you shall!”


I rose and leant my back against the mantelpiece.


“Sapt, I believe in that woman, and I shall go.”


“I don’t believe in any woman,” said Sapt, “and you shan’t go.”


“I either go to the summer-house or back to England,” said I.


Sapt began to know exactly how far he could lead or drive, and when he must

follow.


“We’re playing against time,” I added. “Every day we leave the King where he is

there is fresh risk. Every day I masquerade like this, there is fresh risk.

Sapt, we must play high; we must force the game.”


“So be it,” he said, with a sigh.


To cut the story short, at half-past eleven that night Sapt and I mounted our

horses. Fritz was again left on guard, our destination not being revealed to

him. It was a very dark night. I wore no sword, but I carried a revolver, a

long knife, and a bull’s-eye lantern. We arrived outside the gate. I

dismounted. Sapt held out his hand.


“I shall wait here,” he said. “If I hear a shot, I’ll—”


“Stay where you are; it’s the King’s only chance. You mustn’t come to grief

too.”


“You’re right, lad. Good luck!”


I pressed the little gate. It yielded, and I found myself in a wild sort of

shrubbery. There was a grass-grown path and, turning to the right as I had been

bidden, I followed it cautiously. My lantern was closed, the revolver was in my

hand. I heard not a sound. Presently a large dark object loomed out of the

gloom ahead of me. It was the summer-house. Reaching the steps, I mounted them

and found myself confronted by a weak, rickety wooden door, which hung upon the

latch. I pushed it open and walked in. A woman flew to me and seized my hand.


“Shut the door,” she whispered.


I obeyed and turned the light of my lantern on her. She was in evening dress,

arrayed very sumptuously, and her dark striking beauty was marvellously

displayed in the glare of the bull’s-eye. The summer-house was a bare little

room, furnished only with a couple of chairs and a small iron table, such as

one sees in a tea garden or an open-air cafe.


“Don’t talk,” she said. “We’ve no time. Listen! I know you, Mr. Rassendyll. I

wrote that letter at the duke’s orders.”


“So I thought,” said I.


“In twenty minutes three men will be here to kill you.”


“Three—the three?”


“Yes. You must be gone by then. If not, tonight you’ll be killed—”


“Or they will.”


“Listen, listen! When you’re killed, your body will be taken to a low quarter

of the town. It will be found there. Michael will at once arrest all your

friends—Colonel Sapt and Captain von Tarlenheim first—proclaim a state of siege

in Strelsau, and send a messenger to Zenda. The other three will murder the

King in the Castle, and the duke will proclaim either himself or the

princess—himself, if he is strong enough. Anyhow, he’ll marry her, and become

king in fact, and soon in name. Do you see?”


“It’s a pretty plot. But why, madame, do you—?”


“Say I’m a Christian—or say I’m jealous. My God! shall I see him marry her? Now

go; but remember—this is what I have to tell you—that never, by night or by

day, are you safe. Three men follow you as a guard. Is it not so? Well, three

follow them; Michael’s three are never two hundred yards from you. Your life is

not worth a moment if ever they find you alone. Now go. Stay, the gate will be

guarded by now. Go down softly, go past the summer-house, on for a hundred

yards, and you’ll find a ladder against the wall. Get over it, and fly for your

life.”


“And you?” I asked.


“I have my game to play too. If he finds out what I have done, we shall not

meet again. If not, I may yet—But never mind. Go at once.”


“But what will you tell him?”


“That you never came—that you saw through the trick.”


I took her hand and kissed it.


“Madame,” said I, “you have served the King well tonight. Where is he in the

Castle?”


She sank her voice to a fearful whisper. I listened eagerly.


“Across the drawbridge you come to a heavy door; behind that lies—Hark! What’s

that?”


There were steps outside.


“They’re coming! They’re too soon! Heavens! they’re too soon!” and she turned

pale as death.


“They seem to me,” said I, “to be in the nick of time.”


“Close your lantern. See, there’s a chink in the door. Can you see them?”


I put my eye to the chink. On the lowest step I saw three dim figures. I cocked

my revolver. Antoinette hastily laid her hand on mine.


“You may kill one,” said she. “But what then?”


A voice came from outside—a voice that spoke perfect English.


“Mr. Rassendyll,” it said.


I made no answer.


“We want to talk to you. Will you promise not to shoot till we’ve done?”


“Have I the pleasure of addressing Mr. Detchard?” I said.


“Never mind names.”


“Then let mine alone.”


“All right, sire. I’ve an offer for you.”


I still had my eye to the chink. The three had mounted two steps more; three

revolvers pointed full at the door.


“Will you let us in? We pledge our honour to observe the truce.”


“Don’t trust them,” whispered Antoinette.


“We can speak through the door,” said I.


“But you might open it and fire,” objected Detchard; “and though we should

finish you, you might finish one of us. Will you give your honour not to fire

while we talk?”


“Don’t trust them,” whispered Antoinette again.


A sudden idea struck me. I considered it for a moment. It seemed feasible.


“I give my honour not to fire before you do,” said I; “but I won’t let you in.

Stand outside and talk.”


“That’s sensible,” he said.


The three mounted the last step, and stood just outside the door. I laid my ear

to the chink. I could hear no words, but Detchard’s head was close to that of

the taller of his companions (De Gautet, I guessed).


“H’m! Private communications,” thought I. Then I said aloud:


“Well, gentlemen, what’s the offer?”


“A safe-conduct to the frontier, and fifty thousand pounds English.”


“No, no,” whispered Antoinette in the lowest of whispers. “They are

treacherous.”


“That seems handsome,” said I, reconnoitering through the chink. They were all

close together, just outside the door now.


I had probed the hearts of the ruffians, and I did not need Antoinette’s

warning. They meant to “rush” me as soon as I was engaged in talk.


“Give me a minute to consider,” said I; and I thought I heard a laugh outside.


I turned to Antoinette.


“Stand up close to the wall, out of the line of fire from the door,” I

whispered.


“What are you going to do?” she asked in fright.


“You’ll see,” said I.


I took up the little iron table. It was not very heavy for a man of my

strength, and I held it by the legs. The top, protruding in front of me, made a

complete screen for my head and body. I fastened my closed lantern to my belt

and put my revolver in a handy pocket. Suddenly I saw the door move ever so

slightly—perhaps it was the wind, perhaps it was a hand trying it outside.


I drew back as far as I could from the door, holding the table in the position

that I have described. Then I called out:


“Gentlemen, I accept your offer, relying on your honour. If you will open the

door—”


“Open it yourself,” said Detchard.


“It opens outwards,” said I. “Stand back a little, gentlemen, or I shall hit

you when I open it.”


I went and fumbled with the latch. Then I stole back to my place on tiptoe.


“I can’t open it!” I cried. “The latch has caught.”


“Tut! I’ll open it!” cried Detchard. “Nonsense, Bersonin, why not? Are you

afraid of one man?”


I smiled to myself. An instant later the door was flung back. The gleam of a

lantern showed me the three close together outside, their revolvers levelled.

With a shout, I charged at my utmost pace across the summer-house and through

the doorway. Three shots rang out and battered into my shield. Another moment,

and I leapt out and the table caught them full and square, and in a tumbling,

swearing, struggling mass, they and I and that brave table, rolled down the

steps of the summerhouse to the ground below. Antoinette de Mauban shrieked,

but I rose to my feet, laughing aloud.


De Gautet and Bersonin lay like men stunned. Detchard was under the table, but,

as I rose, he pushed it from him and fired again. I raised my revolver and took

a snap shot; I heard him curse, and then I ran like a hare, laughing as I went,

past the summer-house and along by the wall. I heard steps behind me, and

turning round I fired again for luck. The steps ceased.


“Please God,” said I, “she told me the truth about the ladder!” for the wall

was high and topped with iron spikes.


Yes, there it was. I was up and over in a minute. Doubling back, I saw the

horses; then I heard a shot. It was Sapt. He had heard us, and was battling and

raging with the locked gate, hammering it and firing into the keyhole like a

man possessed. He had quite forgotten that he was not to take part in the

fight. Whereat I laughed again, and said, as I clapped him on the shoulder:


“Come home to bed, old chap. I’ve got the finest tea-table story that ever you

heard!”


He started and cried: “You’re safe!” and wrung my hand. But a moment later he

added:


“And what the devil are you laughing at?”


“Four gentlemen round a tea-table,” said I, laughing still, for it had been

uncommonly ludicrous to see the formidable three altogether routed and

scattered with no more deadly weapon than an ordinary tea-table.


Moreover, you will observe that I had honourably kept my word, and not fired

till they did.


CHAPTER 10

A Great Chance for a Villain


It was the custom that the Prefect of Police should send every afternoon a

report to me on the condition of the capital and the feeling of the people: the

document included also an account of the movements of any persons whom the

police had received instructions to watch. Since I had been in Strelsau, Sapt

had been in the habit of reading the report and telling me any items of

interest which it might contain. On the day after my adventure in the

summer-house, he came in as I was playing a hand of écarté with Fritz

von Tarlenheim.


“The report is rather full of interest this afternoon,” he observed, sitting

down.


“Do you find,” I asked, “any mention of a certain fracas?”


He shook his head with a smile.


“I find this first,” he said: “‘His Highness the Duke of Strelsau left the city

(so far as it appears, suddenly), accompanied by several of his household. His

destination is believed to be the Castle of Zenda, but the party travelled by

road and not by train. MM De Gautet, Bersonin, and Detchard followed an hour

later, the last-named carrying his arm in a sling. The cause of his wound is

not known, but it is suspected that he has fought a duel, probably incidental

to a love affair.’”


“That is remotely true,” I observed, very well pleased to find that I had left

my mark on the fellow.


“Then we come to this,” pursued Sapt: “‘Madame de Mauban, whose movements have

been watched according to instructions, left by train at midday. She took a

ticket for Dresden—’”


“It’s an old habit of hers,” said I.


“‘The Dresden train stops at Zenda.’ An acute fellow, this. And finally listen

to this: ‘The state of feeling in the city is not satisfactory. The King is

much criticized’ (you know, he’s told to be quite frank) ‘for taking no steps

about his marriage. From enquiries among the entourage of the Princess Flavia,

her Royal Highness is believed to be deeply offended by the remissness of his

Majesty. The common people are coupling her name with that of the Duke of

Strelsau, and the duke gains much popularity from the suggestion.’ I have

caused the announcement that the King gives a ball tonight in honour of the

princess to be widely diffused, and the effect is good.”


“That is news to me,” said I.


“Oh, the preparations are all made!” laughed Fritz. “I’ve seen to that.”


Sapt turned to me and said, in a sharp, decisive voice:


“You must make love to her tonight, you know.”


“I think it is very likely I shall, if I see her alone,” said I. “Hang it,

Sapt, you don’t suppose I find it difficult?”


Fritz whistled a bar or two; then he said: “You’ll find it only too easy. Look

here, I hate telling you this, but I must. The Countess Helga told me that the

princess had become most attached to the King. Since the coronation, her

feelings have undergone a marked development. It’s quite true that she is

deeply wounded by the King’s apparent neglect.”


“Here’s a kettle of fish!” I groaned.


“Tut, tut!” said Sapt. “I suppose you’ve made pretty speeches to a girl before

now? That’s all she wants.”


Fritz, himself a lover, understood better my distress. He laid his hand on my

shoulder, but said nothing.


“I think, though,” pursued that cold-blooded old Sapt, “that you’d better make

your offer tonight.”


“Good heavens!”


“Or, any rate, go near it: and I shall send a ‘semi-official’ to the papers.”


“I’ll do nothing of the sort—no more will you!” said I. “I utterly refuse to

take part in making

t iron, the former, a,

having a groove, d, in the centre for fixing the different sizes of

plate beds, e--and the latter supporting the leaves, e f.  On this vice

which is secured to a table, or bench, the plate receives its finishing

polish with rouge, or prepared lampblack.  Mr. Lewis gives the

following directions for its use.  "As the cam wears tighten it with

the adjusting screw (g) so as to allow the lever (f) to fall back into

a horizontal position; the plate being in its place at the time.  Oil

the wearing parts occasionally."


Some Daguerreotypists, however, use a foot lathe with buff wheels of

various forms; but this vice is sufficient for all ordinary purposes.


Fig. 12 (HIPHO_12.GIF)


Fig. 13 (HIPHO_13.GIF)


V. COATING BOXES.--The usual form for iodine and bromine boxes is see,

at figs. 14 and 15.  They are far superior to those in use with the

English operators.  Each consists of a wooden box (a,) having firmly

embeded within it a stout glass jar (c), the edges of which are ground.

Over this is placed the sliding cover b, double the length of the box,

one half occupied by a piece of ground glass (e), tightly pressed upon

the glass pot by a spring (i) beneath the cross bar g, and fits the pot

so accurately that it effectually prevents the escape of the vapor of

the iodine, bromine or other accelerating liquid contained therein.

The other half of the lid is cut through, shoulders being left at the

four angles for the different sizes of frames, designed to recieve the

plate while undergoing the coating process.  When the plate is put into

the frame, the cover b is shoved under the second lid h and when coated

to the proper degree, it resumes its former position and the plate is

placed in the holder of the camera box.  To test the tightness of the

box, light a piece of paper, put it into the pot and cover it with the

sliding lid.  The burning paper expels the air from the pot, and if it

be perfectly tight you may raise the whole box by the lid.


VI. GLASS FUNNELS.--Are a necessary article to the Daguerreotypist, for

filtering water, solutions, &c.


Fig. 14 (HIPHO_14.GIF)


VII. GILDING STAND.--For nervous persons the gilding stand is a useful

article.  It is adjusted to a perfect level by thumb screws placed in

its base.


VIII. SPIRIT LAMPS.--The most useful and economical of those made are

the Britania, as they are less liable to break; and the tube for the

wick being fastened to the body by a screw renders it less liable to

get out of order or explode.  Glass is the cheapest, and for an amateur

will do very well, but for a professed artist the Britania should

always be obtained.


IX.  COLOR BOX.--These are generally found on sale at the shops, and

usually contain eight colors, four brushes and a gold cup.  The artist

would, however, do well to obtain, all the colors mentioned in the last

chapter of this work, and be sure to get the very best, as there are

various qualities of the same color, particularly carmine, which is

very expensive, and the cupidity of some may induce them to sell a poor

article for the sake of larger profits.


Fig. 15 (HIPHO_15.GIF)


STILL.--Daguerreotypists should always use distilled water for

solutions, and washing the plate, as common water holds various

substances in solution which detract very materially from the

excellence of a photograph, and often gives much trouble, quite

unaccountable to many.  For the purpose of distilling water the

apparatus represented at Fig. 16 is both convenient and economical.


It may be either wholly of good stout tin, or of sheet iron tinned on

the inside, and may be used over a common fire, or on a stove.  A is

the body, which may be made to hold from one to four gallons of water,

which is introduced at the opening b, which is then stopped by a cork.

The tube d connects the neck a of the still with the worm tub, or

refrigerator B, at e, which is kept filled with cold water by means of

the funnel c, and drawn off as fast as it becomes warm by the cock f.

The distilled water is condensed in the worm--and passes off at the

cock b, under which a bottle, or other vessel, should be placed to

receive it.  The different joints are rendered tight by lute, or in its

absence, some stiff paste spread upon a piece of linen and wrapped

around them will answer very well; an addition of sealing wax over all

will make them doubly secure.


Fig. 16 (HIPHO_16.GIF)


HYGROMETER.--This is an instrument never to be found, I believe, in the

rooms of our operators, although it would be of much use to them, for

ascertaining the quantity of moisture floating about the room; and as

it is necessary to have the atmosphere as dry as possible to prevent an

undue absorption of this watery vapor by the iodine &c., and to procure

good pictures,--its detection becomes a matter of importance.  Mason's

hygrometer, manufactured by Mr. Roach and sold by Mr. Anthony, 205

Broadway, New York is the best in use.


It consists of two thermometre tubes placed, side by side, on a metalic

scale, which is graduated equally to both tubes.  The bulb of one of

these tubes communicates, by means of a net-work of cotton, with a

glass reservoir of water attached to the back of the scale.  Fig. 17

and 18 represent a front and back view of this instrument.


Fig. 17 is the front view, showing the tubes with their respective

scales; the bulb b being covered with the network of cotton

communicating with the reservoir c fig. 18, at d.


Fig. 17 (HIPHO_17.GIF)


Fig. 18 (HIPHO_18.GIF)


The evaporation of the water from this bulb decreases the temperature

of the mercury in the tube b in proportion to the dryness of the

atmosphere, and the number of degrees the tube b indicates below that

of the other, shows the real state of the atmosphere in the room; for

instance, if b stands at forty and a at sixty-one the room is in a

state of extreme dryness, the difference of twenty-one degrees between

the thermometers--let a stand at any one point--gives this result.  If

they do not differ, or there is only four or five degrees variation,

the atmosphere of the room is very moist and means should be taken to

expel the superfluous quantity.


HEAD RESTS.--The button head rest with chair back clip, A fig.  19--is

much the best for travelling artists, as it can be taken apart, into

several pieces and closely packed; is easily and firmly fixed to the

back of a chair by the clamp and screw a and b, and is readily adjusted

to the head, as the buttons c, c and arms d, d are movable.


Sometimes the button rest is fixed to a pole, which is screwed to the

chair; but this method is not so secure and solid as the clip and

occupies more room in packing.  Both the pole and clip, are furnished

in some cases with brass band rests instead of the button; but the only

recommendation these can possibly possess in the eyes of any artist, is

their cheapness.


Fig. 19 (HIPHO_19.GIF)


For a Daguerreotypist permanently located the independent iron

head-rest, B fig. 19, is the most preferable, principally on account of

its solidity.  It is entirely of iron, is supported by a tripod (a) of

the same metal and can be elevated by means of a rod (b) passing

through the body of the tripod, to a height sufficient for a person,

standing, to rest against.


Fig. 20 (HIPHO_20.GIF)


GALVANIC BATTERY.--This article is used for the purpose of giving to

imperfectly coated plates a thicker covering of silver.  The form of

battery now most universally employed for electrotype, and other

galvanic purposes, is Smee's--Fig. 20.  It consists of a piece of

platinized silver, A, on the top of which is fixed a beam of wood, B,

to prevent contact with the silver.  A binding screw C is soldered on

to the silver plate to connect it with any desired object, by means of

the copper wire, e.  A plate of amalgamated zinc, D, varying with the

fancy of the operator from one half to the entire width of the silver

is placed on each side of the wood.  This is set into a glass vessel,

P,--the extreme ends of the wood resting upon its edge--on which the

acid with which it is charged has no effect.  The jar is charged with

sulphuric acid, (common oil of vitriol) diluted in eight parts its bulk

of water.  The zinc plates of the battery have been amalgamated with

quicksilver, and when the battery is set into the jar of acid there

should be no action percieved upon them when the poles F, G, are not in

contact.  Should any action be percieved, it indicates imperfect

amalgamation; this can be easily remedied by pouring a little mercury

upon them immediately after removing them from the acid, taking care to

get none upon the centre plate A.


Directions for use.--A sheet of silver must be attached to the wire

connected with the centre plate A of the battery, and placed in the

silver solution--prepared as directed below.  The plate to be silvered

is first cleaned with diluted sulphuric acid, and then attached to the

wire, G, proceeding from the zinc plates D, D, and placed in the silver

solution, opposite the silver plate attached to the pole F, and about

half an inch from it.  A slight effervescence will now be percieved

from the battery, and the silver will be deposited upon the

Daguerreotype plate, while at the same time a portion of the silver

plate is dissolved.


To prepare the solution of silver.--Dissolve one ounce of chloride of

silver in a solution of two ounces of cyanide of potassium, previously

dissolved in one quart of water.  The oxide of silver may be used

instead of the chloride.  This solution is put into a tumbler, or other

vessel.


Fig. 21 (HIPHO_21.GIF)


Fig. 22 (HIPHO_22.GIF)


This battery with the necessary articles for using it may be obtained

of E. Anthony, 205 Broadway, New York city.


The other articles required by every operator may be simply enumerated,

viz:


Sticking, or sealing paper.


A pair of pliers, or forceps.


Porcelain pans or dishes, for applying the hyposulphite of soda and

washing after the imagine is fixed, something in form like fig. 23.


A support for holding the plate while being washed, like fig. 24.


[Updater's note: Figures 23 and 24 were missing from the image set.]


Fig. 25 (HIPHO_25.GIF)


BUFF STICKS.--Fig. 25.--These are usually from one to three feet in

length, and about three inches wide--some think two and a half

sufficient.  The underside, which is convex, is covered with a strip of

finely prepared buckskin, or velvet, well padded with cotton or tow.


All the articles enumerated in this chapter may be obtained, of the

very best quality and at the most reasonable rates, of Mr. E. Anthony,

205, Broadway, New York.


CHAP. VI.


THE DAGUERREOTYPE PROCESS.


The process of taking Daguerreotype pictures differs very materially

from all others of the photographic art, inasmuch as the production of

the image is effected upon plates of copper coated with silver.  The

silver employed should be as pure as possible; the thickness of the

plate is of little consequence, provided there be sufficient silver to

bear the cleaning and polishing--is free from copper spots, is

susceptible of a high polish, an exquisitely sensitive coating and a

pleasing tone.  These qualities are possessed to an eminent degree by

the French plates.


Having already enumerated the various processes--and the apparatus

necessary for the manipulation, I will here give a list of the

chemicals to be used, and then proceed to explain them more fully.  The

requisite chemicals are--


FIRST OPERATION.--Cleaning and polishing the plate.--For this purpose

the operator will require the--


Plate Blocks,


Plate Vice


Spirit Lamp,


Polishing Buffs,


Nitric Acid, diluted in fifteen times its bulk of water


Galvanic Battery, to galvanize the plate, if it is too imperfect to be

used without, previous cleaning it, as directed in the last chapter.


Rottenstone,


Tripoli, which is too often dispensed with.


Rouge, or lampblack--the first being most preferable.  The English

operators mix the two together.


Prepared cotton Wool, or Canton flannel.  If the first is used, it

should be excluded from the dust, as it is not so easily cleansed as

the latter.


The plate is secured, with its silver side upward, to the block, by the

means described on page 58--having previously turned the edges backward

all around.  The amount of cleaning a plate requires, depends upon the

state it is in.  We will suppose one in the worst condition; dirty,

scratched, and full of mercury spots, all of which imperfections are

more or less to be encountered.  The mercury spots are to be removed by

burning the plate.  To do this hold the plate over the flame of a

spirit lamp, more particularly under the mercury spots, until they,

assume a dull appearance, when the lamp is to be removed, and the plate

allowed to cool, after which it is attached to the block.


Place the block upon the swivle, and hold it firmly with the left hand;

take a small knot or pellet of cotton, or, if you like it better, a

small piece of canton flannel--wet it with a little diluted nitric

acid; then sift some finely prepared rottenstone--Davie's,* if you can

get it--upon it, and rub it over the plate with a continual circular

motion, till all traces of the dirt and scratches are removed; then

wipe off the rottenstone with a clean piece of cotton, adopting, as

before, a slight circular motion, at the same time wiping the edges of

the plate.  Even the back should not be neglected, but throughly

cleansed from any dirt or greasy film it may have received from

handling.


* Sold by E. Anthony.


When this is thoroughly accomplished, mix a portion of your tripoli

with the dilute nitric acid, to the consistence of thick cream.  Then

take a pellet of cotton and well polish the plate with this mixture, in

the same manner as with the rottenstone.  Continue the process till, on

removing the tripoli with a clean pellet, the plate exhibits a clear,

smooth, bright surface, free from all spots, or scratches.  Any remains

of the acid on the plate may be entirely removed By sifting on it a

little Drying powder, and then wiping it carefully off with a fine

camels hair brush, or duster.  The finishing polish is now to be given.


For this purpose the rouge--or a mixture of rouge and lamp-black, in

the proportion of one part of the former to seven of the latter--is

used.  It should be kept either in a muslin bag, or wide mouth bottle,

over which a piece of muslin is tied--in fact, both the rottenstone and

tripoli should be preserved from the dust in the same manner.  With a

little of this powder spread over the buff--described on page 53--the

plate recieves its final polish; the circular motion is changed for a

straight one across the plate, which, if intended for a portrait,

should be buffed the narrow way; but if, for a landscape or view of a

house, the length way of the plate.


The operation of cleaning the plate at first appears difficult and

tedious, and many have been deterred from attempting this interesting

art on that account; but, in reality, it is more simple in practice

than in description, and with a little patience and observation, all

difficulties are easily overcome.  Great care must be taken to keep the

buff free from all extraneous matter, and perfectly dry, and when not

in use it should be wrapped up in tissue paper, or placed in a tight

box.


The plate should be buffed immediately before the sensitive coating is

given; particles of dust are thus effectually removed; the temperature

of the plate is also increased by the friction, and the required tint

more readily obtained.


SECOND OPERATION.--Applying the sensative coating.--The apparatus and

chemicals required, are an


Iodine box--see fig. 14 page 53.


Bromine box--similar to the iodine box but a trifle deeper.


Dry Iodine.


Bromine, or a compound of Bromine and Chloride of Iodine, or other

sensitive mixture.


Most of our best operators use the compound Bromine and Chloride of

Iodine.  In the early days of the Daguerreotype, Iodine alone was used

in preparing the plate, and although it still plays a very important

part, other preparations, called accelerating liquids, quickstuff, &c.,

are used, and the discovery of which has alone ensured the application

of the Daguerreotype successfully to portrait taking--for when first

introduced among us it took from five to ten minutes to produce a

tolerable good view, while now but the fraction of a minute is required

to obtain an accurate likeness.


To iodize the plate perfectly it must be placed over the iodine vapor

immediately after buffing.  Scatter from a sixteenth to the eighth of

an ounce of dry iodine over the bottom of your coating box, and

slightly cover it with cotton wool.  The plate is then dropped into the

frame b, fig. 12, with its silvered surface downward, and thrust under

the lid h.  The bright surface of the plate is soon coated with a film

of iodine of a fine yellow color; it is then removed and placed over

the accelerating solution.  It is not absolutely necessary to perform

this operation in the dark, although a bright light should be avoided.

Not so the next part of the process, viz; giving the plate its extreme

sensitiveness, or coating with the accelerating liquids.  In this great

caution should be used to prevent the slightest ray of light impringing

directly on the plate, and in examining the color reflected light

should always be used.  A convenient method of examining the plate, is

to make a small hole in the partition of the closet in which you coat,

and cover it with a piece of tissue paper; by quickly turning the plate

so that the paper is reflected upon it the color is very distinctly

shown.  Most of our operators are not so particular in this respect as

they should be.


ACCELERATING LIQUID.--Of these there are several kinds, which differ

both in composition and action--some acting very quickly, others giving

a finer tone to the picture although they are not so expeditious in

there operations; or in other words, not so sensitive to the action of

light.  These are adopted by Daguerreotypists according to their tastes

and prejudices.  They are all applied in the same way as the coating of

iodine.  The following are the best.


Bromine water--This solution is much used in France, and, I shall

therefore give its preparation, and the method of using it, in the

words of M. Figeau.  "Put into a bottle of pure water, a large excess

of bromine; shake the mixture well, and before using it, let all the

bromine be taken up.  An ascertained quantity of this saturated water

is then diluted in a given quantity of distilled water, which gives a

solution of bromine that is always identical." M. Figeau recommends one

part of the saturated solution to thirty parts its bulk of water; but

M. Lesebour finds it more manageable if diluted with forty times.  In

case pure distilled, or rain water cannot be procured, a few drops of

nitric acid--say six to the quart--should be added to the common water.


Put into the bromine box a given quantity of this solution, sufficient

to well c

 and began to dust the two chairs. She was in

      a great temper, talking very fast, disclaiming against the “new lodger.”

       It appeared that this latter never paid his rent; that he was given to

      late hours. Then she came down to the footlights and began to sing in a

      tremendous voice, hoarse and flat, almost like a man's. The chorus, of a

      feeble originality, ran:

    


      The orchestra played the tune of this chorus a second time, with certain

      variations, while the girl danced to it. She sidled to one side of the

      stage and kicked, then sidled to the other and kicked again. As she

      finished with the song, a man, evidently the lodger in question, came in.

      Instantly McTeague exploded in a roar of laughter. The man was

      intoxicated, his hat was knocked in, one end of his collar was unfastened

      and stuck up into his face, his watch-chain dangled from his pocket, and a

      yellow satin slipper was tied to a button-hole of his vest; his nose was

      vermilion, one eye was black and blue. After a short dialogue with the

      girl, a third actor appeared. He was dressed like a little boy, the girl's

      younger brother. He wore an immense turned-down collar, and was

      continually doing hand-springs and wonderful back somersaults. The “act”

       devolved upon these three people; the lodger making love to the girl in

      the short blue dress, the boy playing all manner of tricks upon him,

      giving him tremendous digs in the ribs or slaps upon the back that made

      him cough, pulling chairs from under him, running on all fours between his

      legs and upsetting him, knocking him over at inopportune moments. Every

      one of his falls was accentuated by a bang upon the bass drum. The whole

      humor of the “act” seemed to consist in the tripping up of the intoxicated

      lodger.

    


      This horse-play delighted McTeague beyond measure. He roared and shouted

      every time the lodger went down, slapping his knee, wagging his head.

      Owgooste crowed shrilly, clapping his hands and continually asking, “What

      did he say, ma? What did he say?” Mrs. Sieppe laughed immoderately, her

      huge fat body shaking like a mountain of jelly. She exclaimed from time to

      time, “Ach, Gott, dot fool!” Even Trina was moved, laughing demurely, her

      lips closed, putting one hand with its new glove to her mouth.

    


      The performance went on. Now it was the “musical marvels,” two men

      extravagantly made up as negro minstrels, with immense shoes and plaid

      vests. They seemed to be able to wrestle a tune out of almost anything—glass

      bottles, cigar-box fiddles, strings of sleigh-bells, even graduated brass

      tubes, which they rubbed with resined fingers. McTeague was stupefied with

      admiration.

    


      “That's what you call musicians,” he announced gravely. “'Home, Sweet

      Home,' played upon a trombone. Think of that! Art could go no farther.”

     


      The acrobats left him breathless. They were dazzling young men with

      beautifully parted hair, continually making graceful gestures to the

      audience. In one of them the dentist fancied he saw a strong resemblance

      to the boy who had tormented the intoxicated lodger and who had turned

      such marvellous somersaults. Trina could not bear to watch their antics.

      She turned away her head with a little shudder. “It always makes me sick,”

       she explained.

    


      The beautiful young lady, “The Society Contralto,” in evening dress, who

      sang the sentimental songs, and carried the sheets of music at which she

      never looked, pleased McTeague less. Trina, however, was captivated. She

      grew pensive over

    


      and split her new gloves in her enthusiasm when it was finished.

    


      “Don't you love sad music, Mac?” she murmured.

    


      Then came the two comedians. They talked with fearful rapidity; their wit

      and repartee seemed inexhaustible.

    


      “As I was going down the street yesterday—”

     


      “Ah! as YOU were going down the street—all right.”

     


      “I saw a girl at a window——”

     


      “YOU saw a girl at a window.”

     


      “And this girl she was a corker——”

     


      “Ah! as YOU were going down the street yesterday YOU saw a girl at a

      window, and this girl she was a corker. All right, go on.”

     


      The other comedian went on. The joke was suddenly evolved. A certain

      phrase led to a song, which was sung with lightning rapidity, each

      performer making precisely the same gestures at precisely the same

      instant. They were irresistible. McTeague, though he caught but a third of

      the jokes, could have listened all night.

    


      After the comedians had gone out, the iron advertisement curtain was let

      down.

    


      “What comes now?” said McTeague, bewildered.

    


      “It's the intermission of fifteen minutes now.”

     


      The musicians disappeared through the rabbit hutch, and the audience

      stirred and stretched itself. Most of the young men left their seats.

    


      During this intermission McTeague and his party had “refreshments.” Mrs.

      Sieppe and Trina had Queen Charlottes, McTeague drank a glass of beer,

      Owgooste ate the orange and one of the bananas. He begged for a glass of

      lemonade, which was finally given him.

    


      “Joost to geep um quiet,” observed Mrs. Sieppe.

    


      But almost immediately after drinking his lemonade Owgooste was seized

      with a sudden restlessness. He twisted and wriggled in his seat, swinging

      his legs violently, looking about him with eyes full of a vague distress.

      At length, just as the musicians were returning, he stood up and whispered

      energetically in his mother's ear. Mrs. Sieppe was exasperated at once.

    


      “No, no,” she cried, reseating him brusquely.

    


      The performance was resumed. A lightning artist appeared, drawing

      caricatures and portraits with incredible swiftness. He even went so far

      as to ask for subjects from the audience, and the names of prominent men

      were shouted to him from the gallery. He drew portraits of the President,

      of Grant, of Washington, of Napoleon Bonaparte, of Bismarck, of Garibaldi,

      of P. T. Barnum.

    


      And so the evening passed. The hall grew very hot, and the smoke of

      innumerable cigars made the eyes smart. A thick blue mist hung low over

      the heads of the audience. The air was full of varied smells—the

      smell of stale cigars, of flat beer, of orange peel, of gas, of sachet

      powders, and of cheap perfumery.

    


      One “artist” after another came upon the stage. McTeague's attention never

      wandered for a minute. Trina and her mother enjoyed themselves hugely. At

      every moment they made comments to one another, their eyes never leaving

      the stage.

    


      “Ain't dot fool joost too funny?”

     


      “That's a pretty song. Don't you like that kind of a song?”

     


      “Wonderful! It's wonderful! Yes, yes, wonderful! That's the word.”

     


      Owgooste, however, lost interest. He stood up in his place, his back to

      the stage, chewing a piece of orange peel and watching a little girl in

      her father's lap across the aisle, his eyes fixed in a glassy, ox-like

      stare. But he was uneasy. He danced from one foot to the other, and at

      intervals appealed in hoarse whispers to his mother, who disdained an

      answer.

    


      “Ma, say, ma-ah,” he whined, abstractedly chewing his orange peel, staring

      at the little girl.

    


      “Ma-ah, say, ma.” At times his monotonous plaint reached his mother's

      consciousness. She suddenly realized what this was that was annoying her.

    


      “Owgooste, will you sit down?” She caught him up all at once, and jammed

      him down into his place. “Be quiet, den; loog; listun at der yunge girls.”

     


      Three young women and a young man who played a zither occupied the stage.

      They were dressed in Tyrolese costume; they were yodlers, and sang in

      German about “mountain tops” and “bold hunters” and the like. The yodling

      chorus was a marvel of flute-like modulations. The girls were really

      pretty, and were not made up in the least. Their “turn” had a great

      success. Mrs. Sieppe was entranced. Instantly she remembered her girlhood

      and her native Swiss village.

    


      “Ach, dot is heavunly; joost like der old country. Mein gran'mutter used

      to be one of der mos' famous yodlers. When I was leedle, I haf seen dem

      joost like dat.”

     


      “Ma-ah,” began Owgooste fretfully, as soon as the yodlers had departed. He

      could not keep still an instant; he twisted from side to side, swinging

      his legs with incredible swiftness.

    


      “Ma-ah, I want to go ho-ome.”

     


      “Pehave!” exclaimed his mother, shaking him by the arm; “loog, der leedle

      girl is watchun you. Dis is der last dime I take you to der blay, you

      see.”

     


      “I don't ca-are; I'm sleepy.” At length, to their great relief, he went to

      sleep, his head against his mother's arm.

    


      The kinetoscope fairly took their breaths away.

    


      “What will they do next?” observed Trina, in amazement. “Ain't that

      wonderful, Mac?”

     


      McTeague was awe-struck.

    


      “Look at that horse move his head,” he cried excitedly, quite carried

      away. “Look at that cable car coming—and the man going across the

      street. See, here comes a truck. Well, I never in all my life! What would

      Marcus say to this?”

     


      “It's all a drick!” exclaimed Mrs. Sieppe, with sudden conviction. “I

      ain't no fool; dot's nothun but a drick.”

     


      “Well, of course, mamma,” exclaimed Trina, “it's——”

     


      But Mrs. Sieppe put her head in the air.

    


      “I'm too old to be fooled,” she persisted. “It's a drick.” Nothing more

      could be got out of her than this.

    


      The party stayed to the very end of the show, though the kinetoscope was

      the last number but one on the programme, and fully half the audience left

      immediately afterward. However, while the unfortunate Irish comedian went

      through his “act” to the backs of the departing people, Mrs. Sieppe woke

      Owgooste, very cross and sleepy, and began getting her “things together.”

       As soon as he was awake Owgooste began fidgeting again.

    


      “Save der brogramme, Trina,” whispered Mrs. Sieppe. “Take ut home to

      popper. Where is der hat of Owgooste? Haf you got mein handkerchief,

      Trina?”

     


      But at this moment a dreadful accident happened to Owgooste; his distress

      reached its climax; his fortitude collapsed. What a misery! It was a

      veritable catastrophe, deplorable, lamentable, a thing beyond words! For a

      moment he gazed wildly about him, helpless and petrified with astonishment

      and terror. Then his grief found utterance, and the closing strains of the

      orchestra were mingled with a prolonged wail of infinite sadness.

    


      “Owgooste, what is ut?” cried his mother eyeing him with dawning

      suspicion; then suddenly, “What haf you done? You haf ruin your new

      Vauntleroy gostume!” Her face blazed; without more ado she smacked him

      soundly. Then it was that Owgooste touched the limit of his misery, his

      unhappiness, his horrible discomfort; his utter wretchedness was complete.

      He filled the air with his doleful outcries. The more he was smacked and

      shaken, the louder he wept.

    


      “What—what is the matter?” inquired McTeague.

    


      Trina's face was scarlet. “Nothing, nothing,” she exclaimed hastily,

      looking away. “Come, we must be going. It's about over.” The end of the

      show and the breaking up of the audience tided over the embarrassment of

      the moment.

    


      The party filed out at the tail end of the audience. Already the lights

      were being extinguished and the ushers spreading druggeting over the

      upholstered seats.

    


      McTeague and the Sieppes took an uptown car that would bring them near

      Polk Street. The car was crowded; McTeague and Owgooste were obliged to

      stand. The little boy fretted to be taken in his mother's lap, but Mrs.

      Sieppe emphatically refused.

    


      On their way home they discussed the performance.

    


      “I—I like best der yodlers.”

     


      “Ah, the soloist was the best—the lady who sang those sad songs.”

     


      “Wasn't—wasn't that magic lantern wonderful, where the figures

      moved? Wonderful—ah, wonderful! And wasn't that first act funny,

      where the fellow fell down all the time? And that musical act, and the

      fellow with the burnt-cork face who played 'Nearer, My God, to Thee' on

      the beer bottles.”

     


      They got off at Polk Street and walked up a block to the flat. The street

      was dark and empty; opposite the flat, in the back of the deserted market,

      the ducks and geese were calling persistently.

    


      As they were buying their tamales from the half-breed Mexican at the

      street corner, McTeague observed:

    


      “Marcus ain't gone to bed yet. See, there's a light in his window. There!”

       he exclaimed at once, “I forgot the doorkey. Well, Marcus can let us in.”

     


      Hardly had he rung the bell at the street door of the flat when the bolt

      was shot back. In the hall at the top of the long, narrow staircase there

      was the sound of a great scurrying. Maria Macapa stood there, her hand

      upon the rope that drew the bolt; Marcus was at her side; Old Grannis was

      in the background, looking over their shoulders; while little Miss Baker

      leant over the banisters, a strange man in a drab overcoat at her side. As

      McTeague's party stepped into the doorway a half-dozen voices cried:

    


      “Yes, it's them.”

     


      “Is that you, Mac?”

     


      “Is that you, Miss Sieppe?”

     


      “Is your name Trina Sieppe?”

     


      Then, shriller than all the rest, Maria Macapa screamed:

    


      “Oh, Miss Sieppe, come up here quick. Your lottery ticket has won five

      thousand dollars!”

     


 


      CHAPTER 7

    


      “What nonsense!” answered Trina.

    


      “Ach Gott! What is ut?” cried Mrs. Sieppe, misunderstanding, supposing a

      calamity.

    


      “What—what—what,” stammered the dentist, confused by the

      lights, the crowded stairway, the medley of voices. The party reached the

      landing. The others surrounded them. Marcus alone seemed to rise to the

      occasion.

    


      “Le' me be the first to congratulate you,” he cried, catching Trina's

      hand. Every one was talking at once.

    


      “Miss Sieppe, Miss Sieppe, your ticket has won five thousand dollars,”

       cried Maria. “Don't you remember the lottery ticket I sold you in Doctor

      McTeague's office?”

     


      “Trina!” almost screamed her mother. “Five tausend thalers! five tausend

      thalers! If popper were only here!”

     


      “What is it—what is it?” exclaimed McTeague, rolling his eyes.

    


      “What are you going to do with it, Trina?” inquired Marcus.

    


      “You're a rich woman, my dear,” said Miss Baker, her little false curls

      quivering with excitement, “and I'm glad for your sake. Let me kiss you.

      To think I was in the room when you bought the ticket!”

     


      “Oh, oh!” interrupted Trina, shaking her head, “there is a mistake. There

      must be. Why—why should I win five thousand dollars? It's nonsense!”

     


      “No mistake, no mistake,” screamed Maria. “Your number was 400,012. Here

      it is in the paper this evening. I remember it well, because I keep an

      account.”

     


      “But I know you're wrong,” answered Trina, beginning to tremble in spite

      of herself. “Why should I win?”

     


      “Eh? Why shouldn't you?” cried her mother.

    


      In fact, why shouldn't she? The idea suddenly occurred to Trina. After

      all, it was not a question of effort or merit on her part. Why should she

      suppose a mistake? What if it were true, this wonderful fillip of fortune

      striking in there like some chance-driven bolt?

    


      “Oh, do you think so?” she gasped.

    


      The stranger in the drab overcoat came forward.

    


      “It's the agent,” cried two or three voices, simultaneously.

    


      “I guess you're one of the lucky ones, Miss Sieppe,” he said. “I suppose

      you have kept your ticket.”

     


      “Yes, yes; four three oughts twelve—I remember.”

     


      “That's right,” admitted the other. “Present your ticket at the local

      branch office as soon as possible—the address is printed on the back

      of the ticket—and you'll receive a check on our bank for five

      thousand dollars. Your number will have to be verified on our official

      list, but there's hardly a chance of a mistake. I congratulate you.”

     


      All at once a great shrill of gladness surged up in Trina. She was to

      possess five thousand dollars. She was carried away with the joy of her

      good fortune, a natural, spontaneous joy—the gaiety of a child with

      a new and wonderful toy.

    


      “Oh, I've won, I've won, I've won!” she cried, clapping her hands. “Mamma,

      think of it. I've won five thousand dollars, just by buying a ticket. Mac,

      what do you say to that? I've got five thousand dollars. August, do you

      hear what's happened to sister?”

     


      “Kiss your mommer, Trina,” suddenly commanded Mrs. Sieppe. “What efer will

      you do mit all dose money, eh, Trina?”

     


      “Huh!” exclaimed Marcus. “Get married on it for one thing.” Thereat they

      all shouted with laughter. McTeague grinned, and looked about sheepishly.

      “Talk about luck,” muttered Marcus, shaking his head at the dentist; then

      suddenly he added:

    


      “Well, are we going to stay talking out here in the hall all night? Can't

      we all come into your 'Parlors', Mac?”

     


      “Sure, sure,” exclaimed McTeague, hastily unlocking his door.

    


      “Efery botty gome,” cried Mrs. Sieppe, genially. “Ain't ut so, Doktor?”

     


      “Everybody,” repeated the dentist. “There's—there's some beer.”

     


      “We'll celebrate, by damn!” exclaimed Marcus. “It ain't every day you win

      five thousand dollars. It's only Sundays and legal holidays.” Again he set

      the company off into a gale of laughter. Anything was funny

”


16

SING SPEAKS


For a week Professor Maxon with von Horn and Sing sought for Virginia. They

could get no help from the natives of the long-house, who feared the vengeance

of Muda Saffir should he learn that they had aided the white men upon his

trail.


And always as the three hunted through the jungle and up and down the river

there lurked ever near a handful of the men of the tribe of the two whom von

Horn had murdered, waiting for the chance that would give them revenge and the

heads of the three they followed. They feared the guns of the white men too

much to venture an open attack, and at night the quarry never abated their

watchfulness, so that days dragged on, and still the three continued their

hopeless quest unconscious of the relentless foe that dogged their footsteps.


Von Horn was always searching for an opportunity to enlist the aid of the

friendly natives in an effort to regain the chest, but so far he had found none

who would agree to accompany him even in consideration of a large share of the

booty. It was the treasure alone which kept him to the search for Virginia

Maxon, and he made it a point to direct the hunt always in the vicinity of the

spot where it was buried, for a great fear consumed him that Ninaka might

return and claim it before he had a chance to make away with it.


Three times during the week they returned and slept at the long-house, hoping

each time to learn that the natives had received some news of her they sought,

through the wonderful channels of communication that seemed always open across

the trackless jungle and up and down the savage, lonely rivers.


For two days Bulan lay raving in the delirium of fever, while the delicate

girl, unused to hardship and exposure, watched over him and nursed him with the

loving tenderness and care of a young mother with her first born.


For the most part the young giant’s ravings were inarticulate, but now

and then Virginia heard her name linked with words of reverence and worship.

The man fought again the recent battles he had passed through, and again

suffered the long night watches beside the sleeping girl who filled his heart.

Then it was that she learned the truth of his self-sacrificing devotion. The

thing that puzzled her most was the repetition of a number and a name which ran

through all his delirium—“Nine ninety nine Priscilla.”


She could make neither head nor tail of it, nor was there another word to give

a clue to its meaning, so at last from constant repetition it became a

commonplace and she gave it no further thought.


The girl had given up hope that Bulan ever could recover, so weak and emaciated

had he become, and when the fever finally left him quite suddenly she was

positive that it was the beginning of the end. It was on the morning of the

seventh day since they had commenced their wandering in search of the

long-house that, as she sat watching him, she saw his eyes resting upon her

face with a look of recognition.


Gently she took his hand, and at the act he smiled at her very weakly.


“You are better, Bulan,” she said. “You have been very sick,

but now you shall soon be well again.”


She did not believe her own words, yet the mere saying of them gave her renewed

hope.


“Yes,” replied the man. “I shall soon be well again. How long

have I been like this?”


“For two days,” she replied.


“And you have watched over me alone in the jungle for two days?” he

asked incredulously.


“Had it been for life,” she said in a low voice, “it would

scarce have repaid the debt I owe you.”


For a long time he lay looking up into her eyes—longingly, wistfully.


“I wish that it had been for life,” he said.


At first she did not quite realize what he meant, but presently the tired and

hopeless expression of his eyes brought to her a sudden knowledge of his

meaning.


“Oh, Bulan,” she cried, “you must not say that. Why should

you wish to die?”


“Because I love you, Virginia,” he replied. “And because,

when you know what I am, you will hate and loathe me.”


On the girl’s lips was an avowal of her own love, but as she bent closer

to whisper the words in his ear there came the sound of men crashing through

the jungle, and as she turned to face the peril that she thought approaching,

von Horn sprang into view, while directly behind him came her father and Sing

Lee.


Bulan saw them at the same instant, and as Virginia ran forward to greet her

father he staggered weakly to his feet. Von Horn was the first to see the young

giant, and with an oath sprang toward him, drawing his revolver as he came.


“You beast,” he cried. “We have caught you at last.”


At the words Virginia turned back toward Bulan with a little scream of warning

and of horror. Professor Maxon was behind her.


“Shoot the monster, von Horn,” he ordered. “Do not let him

escape.”


Bulan drew himself to his full height, and though he wavered from weakness, yet

he towered mighty and magnificent above the evil faced man who menaced him.


“Shoot!” he said calmly. “Death cannot come too soon

now.”


At the same instant von Horn pulled the trigger. The giant’s head fell

back, he staggered, whirled about, and crumpled to the earth just as Virginia

Maxon’s arms closed about him.


Von Horn rushed close and pushing the girl aside pressed the muzzle of his gun

to Bulan’s temple, but an avalanche of wrinkled, yellow skin was upon him

before he could pull the trigger a second time, and Sing had hurled him back a

dozen feet and snatched his weapon.


Moaning and sobbing Virginia threw herself upon the body of the man she loved,

while Professor Maxon hurried to her side to drag her away from the soulless

thing for whom he had once intended her.


Like a tigress the girl turned upon the two white men.


“You are murderers,” she cried. “Cowardly murderers. Weak and

exhausted by fever he could not combat you, and so you have robbed the world of

one of the noblest men that God ever created.”


“Hush!” cried Professor Maxon. “Hush, child, you do not know

what you say. The thing was a monster—a soulless monster.”


At the words the girl looked up quickly at her father, a faint realization of

his meaning striking her like a blow in the face.


“What do you mean?” she whispered. “Who was he?”


It was von Horn who answered.


“No god created that,” he said, with a contemptuous glance at the

still body of the man at their feet. “He was one of the creatures of your

father’s mad experiments—the soulless thing for whose arms his

insane obsession doomed you. The thing at your feet, Virginia, was Number

Thirteen.”


With a piteous little moan the girl turned back toward the body of the young

giant. A faltering step she took toward it, and then to the horror of her

father she sank upon her knees beside it and lifting the man’s head in

her arms covered the face with kisses.


“Virginia!” cried the professor. “Are you mad, child?”


“I am not mad,” she moaned, “not yet. I love him. Man or

monster, it would have been all the same to me, for I loved him.”


Her father turned away, burying his face in his hands.


“God!” he muttered. “What an awful punishment you have

visited upon me for the sin of the thing I did.”


The silence which followed was broken by Sing who had kneeled opposite Virginia

upon the other side of Bulan, where he was feeling the giant’s wrists and

pressing his ear close above his heart.


“Do’n cly, Linee,” said the kindly old Chinaman. “Him

no dlead.” Then, as he poured a pinch of brownish powder into the

man’s mouth from a tiny sack he had brought forth from the depths of one

of his sleeves: “Him no mlonster either, Linee. Him white man, alsame

Mlaxon. Sing know.”


The girl looked up at him in gratitude.


“He is not dead, Sing? He will live?” she cried. “I

don’t care about anything else, Sing, if you will only make him

live.”


“Him live. Gettem lilee flesh wounds. Las all.”


“What do you mean by saying that he is not a monster?” demanded von

Horn.


“You waitee, you dam flool,” cried Sing. “I tellee lot more I

know. You waitee I flixee him, and then, by God, I flixee you.”


Von Horn took a menacing step toward the Chinaman, his face black with wrath,

but Professor Maxon interposed.


“This has gone quite far enough, Doctor von Horn,” he said.

“It may be that we acted hastily. I do not know, of course, what Sing

means, but I intend to find out. He has been very faithful to us, and deserves

every consideration.”


Von Horn stepped back, still scowling. Sing poured a little water between

Bulan’s lips, and then asked Professor Maxon for his brandy flask. With

the first few drops of the fiery liquid the giant’s eyelids moved, and a

moment later he raised them and looked about him.


The first face he saw was Virginia’s. It was full of love and compassion.


“They have not told you yet?” he asked.


“Yes,” she replied. “They have told me, but it makes no

difference. You have given me the right to say it, Bulan, and I do say it now

again, before them all—I love you, and that is all there is that makes

any difference.”


A look of happiness lighted his face momentarily, only to fade as quickly as it

had come.


“No, Virginia,” he said, sadly, “it would not be right. It

would be wicked. I am not a human being. I am only a soulless monster. You

cannot mate with such as I. You must go away with your father. Soon you will

forget me.”


“Never, Bulan!” cried the girl, determinedly.


The man was about to attempt to dissuade her, when Sing interrupted.


“You keepee still, Bulan,” he said. “You wait till Sing

tellee. You no mlonster. Mlaxon he no makee you. Sing he find you in low bloat

jus’ outsidee cove. You dummy. No know nothing. No know namee. No know

where comee from. No talkee.


“Sing he jes’ hearee Mlaxon tellee Hornee ’bout Nlumber

Thlirteen. How he makee him for Linee. Makee Linee mally him. Sing he know what

kindee fleaks Mlaxon makee. Linee always good to old Sing. Sing he been peeking

thlu clack in wallee. See blig vlat where Thlirteen growing.


“Sing he takee you to Sing’s shackee that night. Hide you till

evlybody sleep. Then he sneak you in workee shop. Kickee over vlat. Leaves you.

Nex’ mlorning Mlaxon makee blig hulabaloo. Dance up and downee. Whoop!

Thlirteen clome too soonee, but allight; him finee, perfec’ man. Whoop!


“Anyway, you heap better for Linee than one Mlaxon’s fleaks,”

he concluded, turning toward Bulan.


“You are lying, you yellow devil,” cried von Horn.


The Chinaman turned his shrewd, slant eyes malevolently upon the doctor.


“Sing lies?” he hissed. “Mabbeso Sing lies when he ask what

for you glet Bludleen steal tleasure. But Lajah Saffir he come and spoil it all

while you tly glet Linee to the ship—Sing knows.


“Then you tellee Mlaxon Thlirteen steal Linee. You lie then and you knew

you lie. You lie again when Thlirteen savee Linee flom Oulang Outang—you

say you savee Linee.


“Then you make bad talkee with Lajah Saffir at long-house. Sing hear you

all timee. You tly getee tleasure away from Dlyaks for your self.

Then—”


“Stop!” roared von Horn. “Stop! You lying yellow sneak,

before I put a bullet in you.”


“Both of you may stop now,” said Professor Maxon authoritatively.

“There have been charges made here that cannot go unnoticed. Can you

prove these things Sing?” he asked turning to the Chinaman.


“I plove much by Bludleen’s lascar. Bludleen tell him all

’bout Hornee. I plove some more by Dyak chief at long-house. He knows

lots. Lajah Saffir tell him. It all tlue, Mlaxon.”


“And it is true about this man—the thing that you have told us is

true? He is not one of those created in the laboratory?”


“No, Mlaxon. You no makee fine young man like Blulan—you know lat,

Mlaxon. You makee One, Two, Thlee—all up to Twelve. All fleaks. You ought

to know, Mlaxon, lat you no can makee a Blulan.”


During these revelations Bulan had sat with his eyes fixed upon the Chinaman.

There was a puzzled expression upon his wan, blood-streaked face. It was as

though he were trying to wrest from the inner temple of his consciousness a

vague and tantalizing memory that eluded him each time that he felt he had it

within his grasp—the key to the strange riddle that hid his origin.


The girl kneeled close beside him, one small hand in his. Hope and happiness

had supplanted the sorrow in her face. She tore the hem from her skirt, to

bandage the bloody furrow that creased the man’s temple. Professor Maxon

stood silently by, watching the loving tenderness that marked each deft, little

movement of her strong, brown hands.


The revelations of the past few minutes had shocked the old man into stupefied

silence. It was difficult, almost impossible, for him to believe that Sing had

spoken the truth and that this man was not one of the creatures of his own

creation; yet from the bottom of his heart he prayed that it might prove the

truth, for he saw that his daughter loved the man with a love that would be

stayed by no obstacle or bound by no man-made law, or social custom.


The Chinaman’s indictment of von Horn had come as an added blow to

Professor Maxon, but it had brought its own supporting evidence in the flood of

recollections it had induced in the professor’s mind. Now he recalled a

hundred chance incidents and conversations with his assistant that pointed

squarely toward the man’s disloyalty and villainy. He wondered that he

had been so blind as not to have suspected his lieutenant long before.


Virginia had at last succeeded in adjusting her rude bandage and stopping the

flow of blood. Bulan had risen weakly to his feet. The girl supported him upon

one side, and Sing upon the other. Professor Maxon approached the little group.


“I do not know what to make of all that Sing has told us,” he said.

“If you are not Number Thirteen who are you? Where did you come from? It

seems very strange indeed—impossible, in fact. However, if you will

explain who you are, I shall be glad

to—ah—consider—ah—permitting you to pay court to my

daughter.”


“I do not know who I am,” replied Bulan. “I had always

thought that I was only Number Thirteen, until Sing just spoke. Now I have a

faint recollection of drifting for days upon the sea in an open

boat—beyond that all is blank. I shall not force my attentions upon

Virginia until I can prove my identity, and that my past is one which I can lay

before her without shame—until then I shall not see her.”


“You shall do nothing of the kind,” cried the girl. “You love

me, and I you. My father intended to force me to marry you while he still

thought that you were a soulless thing. Now that it is quite apparent that you

are a human being, and a gentleman, he hesitates, but I do not. As I have told

you before, it makes no difference to me what you are. You have told me that

you love me. You have demonstrated a love that is high, and noble, and

self-sacrificing. More than that no girl needs to know. I am satisfied to be

the wife of Bulan—if Bulan is satisfied to have the daughter of the man

who has so cruelly wronged him.”


An arm went around the girl’s shoulders and drew her close to the man she

had glorified with her loyalty and her love. The other hand was stretched out

toward Professor Maxon.


“Professor,” said Bulan, “in the face of what Sing has told

us, in the face of a disinterested comparison between myself and the miserable

creatures of your experiments, is it not folly to suppose that I am one of

them? Some day I shall recall my past, until that time shall prove my

worthiness I shall not ask for Virginia’s hand, and in this decision she

must concur, for the truth might reveal some insurmountable obstacle to our

marriage. In the meantime let us be friends, professor, for we are both

actuated by the same desire—the welfare and happiness of your

daughter.”


The old man stepped forward and took Bulan’s hand. The expression of

doubt and worry had left his face.


“I cannot believe,” he said, “that you are other than a

gentleman, and if, in my desire to protect Virginia, I have said aught to wound

you I ask your forgiveness.”


Bulan responded only with a tighter pressure of the hand.


“And now,” said the professor, “let us return to the

long-house. I wish to have a few words in private with you, von Horn,”

and he turned to face his assistant, but the man had disappeared.


“Where is Doctor von Horn?” exclaimed the scientist, addressing

Sing.


“Hornee, him vamoose long time ’go,” replied the Chinaman.

“He hear all he likee.”


Slowly the little party wound along the jungle trail, and in less than a mile,

to Virginia’s infinite surprise, came out upon the river and the

long-house that she and Bulan had searched for in vain.


“And to think,” she cried, “that all these awful days we have

been almost within sound of your voices. What strange freak of fate sent you to

us today?”


“We had about given up hope,” replied her father, “when Sing

suggested to me that we cut across the highlands that separate this valley from

the one adjoining it upon the northeast, where we should strike other tribes

and from them glean some clue to your whereabouts in case your abductors had

attempted to carry you back to the sea by another route. This seemed likely in

view of the fact that we were assured by enemies of Muda Saffir that you were

not in his possession, and that the river we were bound for would lead your

captors most quickly out of the domains of that rascally Malay. You may imagine

our surprise, Virginia, when after proceeding for but a mile we discovered

you.”


No sooner had the party entered the verandah of the long-house than Professor

Maxon made inquiries for von Horn, only to learn that he had departed up stream

in a prahu with several warriors whom he had engaged to accompany him on a

“hunting expedition,” having explained that the white girl had been

found and was being brought to the long-house.


The chief further explained that he had done his best to dissuade the white man

from so rash an act, as he was going directly into the country of the tribe of

the two men he had killed, and there was little chance that he ever would come

out alive.


While they were still discussing von Horn’s act, and wondering at his

intentions, a native on the verandah cried out in astonishment, pointing down

the river. As they looked in the direction he indicated all saw a graceful,

white cutter gliding around a nearby turn. At the oars were white clad American

sailors, and in the stern two officers in the uniform of the United States

navy.


17

999 PRISCILLA


As the cutter touched the bank the entire party from the long-house, whites and

natives, were gathered on the shore to meet it. At first the officers held off

as though fearing a hostile demonstration, but when they saw the whites among

the throng, a command was given to pull in, and a moment later one of the

officers stepped ashore.


“I am Lieutenant May,” he said, “of the U.S.S. New Mexico,

flagship of the Pacific Fleet. Have I the honor to address Professor

Maxon?”


The scientist nodded. “I am delighted,” he said.


“We have been to your island, Professor,” continued the of

is accursed life!”


“Then God keep thee, old man—see’st thou

that”—pointing to the hammock—“I bury but one of five

stout men, who were alive only yesterday; but were dead ere night. Only

that one I bury; the rest were buried before they died; you sail upon

their tomb.” Then turning to his crew—“Are ye ready there?

place the plank then on the rail, and lift the body; so, then—Oh!

God”—advancing towards the hammock with uplifted

hands—“may the resurrection and the life——”


“Brace forward! Up helm!” cried Ahab like lightning to his men.


But the suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape the sound of the

splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea; not so quick, indeed,

but that some of the flying bubbles might have sprinkled her hull with their

ghostly baptism.


As Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight, the strange life-buoy hanging at

the Pequod’s stern came into conspicuous relief.


“Ha! yonder! look yonder, men!” cried a foreboding voice in her

wake. “In vain, oh, ye strangers, ye fly our sad burial; ye but turn us

your taffrail to show us your coffin!”


CHAPTER CXXXII.THE SYMPHONY


It was a clear steel-blue day. The firmaments of air and sea were hardly

separable in that all-pervading azure; only, the pensive air was transparently

pure and soft, with a woman’s look, and the robust and man-like sea

heaved with long, strong, lingering swells, as Samson’s chest in his

sleep.


Hither, and thither, on high, glided the snow-white wings of small, unspeckled

birds; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air; but to and fro in

the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushed mighty leviathans,

sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong, troubled, murderous

thinkings of the masculine sea.


But though thus contrasting within, the contrast was only in shades and shadows

without; those two seemed one; it was only the sex, as it were, that

distinguished them.


Aloft, like a royal czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle air to

this bold and rolling sea; even as bride to groom. And at the girdling line of

the horizon, a soft and tremulous motion—most seen here at the

equator—denoted the fond, throbbing trust, the loving alarms, with which

the poor bride gave her bosom away.


Tied up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firm and

unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in the ashes of ruin;

untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the morn; lifting his

splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl’s forehead of heaven.


Oh, immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure! Invisible winged creatures

that frolic all round us! Sweet childhood of air and sky! how oblivious were ye

of old Ahab’s close-coiled woe! But so have I seen little Miriam and

Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol around their old sire; sporting

with the circle of singed locks which grew on the marge of that burnt-out

crater of his brain.


Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle, Ahab leaned over the side, and

watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze, the more and the

more that he strove to pierce the profundity. But the lovely aromas in that

enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a moment, the cankerous thing in

his soul. That glad, happy air, that winsome sky, did at last stroke and caress

him; the step-mother world, so long cruel—forbidding—now threw

affectionate arms round his stubborn neck, and did seem to joyously sob over

him, as if over one, that however wilful and erring, she could yet find it in

her heart to save and to bless. From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a

tear into the sea; nor did all the pacific contain such wealth as that one wee

drop.


Starbuck saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the side; and he

seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing that stole out of

the centre of the serenity around. Careful not to touch him, or be noticed by

him, he yet drew near to him, and stood there.


Ahab turned.


“Starbuck!”


“Sir.”


“Oh, Starbuck! it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky. On such a

day—very much such a sweetness as this—I struck my first

whale—a boy-harpooneer of eighteen! Forty—forty—forty years

ago!—ago! Forty years of continual whaling! forty years of privation, and

peril, and storm-time! forty years on the pitiless sea! for forty years has

Ahab forsaken the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrors of

the deep! Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have not spent

three ashore. When I think of this life I have led; the desolation of solitude

it has been; the masoned, walled-town of a Captain’s exclusiveness, which

admits but small entrance to any sympathy from the green country

without—oh, weariness! heaviness! Guinea-coast slavery of solitary

command!—when I think of all this; only half-suspected, not so keenly

known to me before—and how for forty years I have fed upon dry salted

fare—fit emblem of the dry nourishment of my soul—when the poorest

landsman has had fresh fruit to his daily hand, and broken the world’s

fresh bread to my mouldy crusts—away, whole oceans away, from that young

girl-wife I wedded past fifty, and sailed for Cape Horn the next day, leaving

but one dent in my marriage pillow—wife? wife?—rather a widow with

her husband alive! Aye, I widowed that poor girl when I married her, Starbuck;

and then, the madness, the frenzy, the boiling blood and the smoking brow, with

which, for a thousand lowerings old Ahab has furiously, foamingly chased his

prey—more a demon than a man!—aye, aye! what a forty years’

fool—fool—old fool, has old Ahab been! Why this strife of the

chase? why weary, and palsy the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance?

how the richer or better is Ahab now? Behold. Oh, Starbuck! is it not hard,

that with this weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been snatched from

under me? Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me, that I seem to weep.

Locks so grey did never grow but from out some ashes! But do I look very old,

so very, very old, Starbuck? I feel deadly faint, bowed, and humped, as though

I were Adam, staggering beneath the piled centuries since Paradise. God! God!

God!—crack my heart!—stave my brain!—mockery! mockery!

bitter, biting mockery of grey hairs, have I lived enough joy to wear ye; and

seem and feel thus intolerably old? Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me

look into a human eye; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky; better than

to gaze upon God. By the green land; by the bright hearth-stone! this is the

magic glass, man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye. No, no; stay on

board, on board!—lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives chase to

Moby Dick. That hazard shall not be thine. No, no! not with the far away home I

see in that eye!”


“Oh, my Captain! my Captain! noble soul! grand old heart, after all! why

should any one give chase to that hated fish! Away with me! let us fly these

deadly waters! let us home! Wife and child, too, are

Starbuck’s—wife and child of his brotherly, sisterly, play-fellow

youth; even as thine, sir, are the wife and child of thy loving, longing,

paternal old age! Away! let us away!—this instant let me alter the

course! How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowl on our way

to see old Nantucket again! I think, sir, they have some such mild blue days,

even as this, in Nantucket.”


“They have, they have. I have seen them—some summer days in the

morning. About this time—yes, it is his noon nap now—the boy

vivaciously wakes; sits up in bed; and his mother tells him of me, of cannibal

old me; how I am abroad upon the deep, but will yet come back to dance him

again.”


“Tis my Mary, my Mary herself! She promised that my boy, every morning,

should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of his father’s

sail! Yes, yes! no more! it is done! we head for Nantucket! Come, my Captain,

study out the course, and let us away! See, see! the boy’s face from the

window! the boy’s hand on the hill!”


But Ahab’s glance was averted; like a blighted fruit tree he shook, and

cast his last, cindered apple to the soil.


“What is it, what nameless, inscrutable, unearthly thing is it; what

cozzening, hidden lord and master, and cruel, remorseless emperor commands me;

that against all natural lovings and longings, I so keep pushing, and crowding,

and jamming myself on all the time; recklessly making me ready to do what in my

own proper, natural heart, I durst not so much as dare? Is Ahab, Ahab? Is it I,

God, or who, that lifts this arm? But if the great sun move not of himself; but

is as an errand-boy in heaven; nor one single star can revolve, but by some

invisible power; how then can this one small heart beat; this one small brain

think thoughts; unless God does that beating, does that thinking, does that

living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and round in this world,

like yonder windlass, and Fate is the handspike. And all the time, lo! that

smiling sky, and this unsounded sea! Look! see yon Albicore! who put it into

him to chase and fang that flying-fish? Where do murderers go, man! Who’s

to doom, when the judge himself is dragged to the bar? But it is a mild, mild

wind, and a mild looking sky; and the air smells now, as if it blew from a

far-away meadow; they have been making hay somewhere under the slopes of the

Andes, Starbuck, and the mowers are sleeping among the new-mown hay. Sleeping?

Aye, toil we how we may, we all sleep at last on the field. Sleep? Aye, and

rust amid greenness; as last year’s scythes flung down, and left in the

half-cut swaths—Starbuck!”


But blanched to a corpse’s hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away.


Ahab crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side; but started at two

reflected, fixed eyes in the water there. Fedallah was motionlessly leaning

over the same rail.


CHAPTER CXXXIII.THE CHASE—FIRST DAY


That night, in the mid-watch, when the old man—as his wont at

intervals—stepped forth from the scuttle in which he leaned, and went to

his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely, snuffing up the sea

air as a sagacious ship’s dog will, in drawing nigh to some barbarous

isle. He declared that a whale must be near. Soon that peculiar odor, sometimes

to a great distance given forth by the living sperm whale, was palpable to all

the watch; nor was any mariner surprised when, after inspecting the compass,

and then the dog-vane, and then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as

nearly as possible, Ahab rapidly ordered the ship’s course to be slightly

altered, and the sail to be shortened.


The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicated at

daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and lengthwise

ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated watery wrinkles bordering

it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift tide-rip, at the mouth of a

deep, rapid stream.


“Man the mast-heads! Call all hands!”


Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastle deck,

Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that they seemed to exhale

from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appear with their clothes in

their hands.


“What d’ye see?” cried Ahab, flattening his face to the sky.


“Nothing, nothing, sir!” was the sound hailing down in reply.


“T’gallant sails!—stunsails! alow and aloft, and on both

sides!”


All sail being set, he now cast loose the life-line, reserved for swaying him

to the main royal-mast head; and in a few moments they were hoisting him

thither, when, while but two thirds of the way aloft, and while peering ahead

through the horizontal vacancy between the main-top-sail and top-gallant-sail,

he raised a gull-like cry in the air, “There she blows!—there she

blows! A hump like a snow-hill! It is Moby Dick!”


Fired by the cry which seemed simultaneously taken up by the three look-outs,

the men on deck rushed to the rigging to behold the famous whale they had so

long been pursuing. Ahab had now gained his final perch, some feet above the

other look-outs, Tashtego standing just beneath him on the cap of the

top-gallant mast, so that the Indian’s head was almost on a level with

Ahab’s heel. From this height the whale was now seen some mile or so

ahead, at every roll of the sea revealing his high sparkling hump, and

regularly jetting his silent spout into the air. To the credulous mariners it

seemed the same silent spout they had so long ago beheld in the moonlit

Atlantic and Indian Oceans.


“And did none of ye see it before?” cried Ahab, hailing the perched

men all around him.


“I saw him almost that same instant, sir, that Captain Ahab did, and I

cried out,” said Tashtego.


“Not the same instant; not the same—no, the doubloon is mine, Fate

reserved the doubloon for me. I only; none of ye could have raised the

White Whale first. There she blows! there she blows!—there she blows!

There again!—there again!” he cried, in long-drawn, lingering,

methodic tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale’s visible

jets. “He’s going to sound! In stunsails! Down top-gallant-sails!

Stand by three boats. Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay on board, and keep the ship.

Helm there! Luff, luff a point! So; steady, man, steady! There go flukes! No,

no; only black water! All ready the boats there? Stand by, stand by! Lower me,

Mr. Starbuck; lower, lower,—quick, quicker!” and he slid through

the air to the deck.


“He is heading straight to leeward, sir,” cried Stubb, “right

away from us; cannot have seen the ship yet.”


“Be dumb, man! Stand by the braces! Hard down the helm!—brace up!

Shiver her!—shiver her! So; well that! Boats, boats!”


Soon all the boats but Starbuck’s were dropped; all the boat-sails

set—all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting to leeward;

and Ahab heading the onset. A pale, death-glimmer lit up Fedallah’s

sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.


Like noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea; but

only slowly they neared the foe. As they neared him, the ocean grew still more

smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a noon-meadow, so

serenely it spread. At length the breathless hunter came so nigh his seemingly

unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling hump was distinctly visible,

sliding along the sea as if an isolated thing, and continually set in a

revolving ring of finest, fleecy, greenish foam. He saw the vast, involved

wrinkles of the slightly projecting head beyond. Before it, far out on the soft

Turkish-rugged waters, went the glistening white shadow from his broad, milky

forehead, a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade; and behind, the

blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley of his steady

wake; and on either hand bright bubbles arose and danced by his side. But these

were broken again by the light toes of hundreds of gay fowl softly feathering

the sea, alternate with their fitful flight; and like to some flag-staff rising

from the painted hull of an argosy, the tall but shattered pole of a recent

lance projected from the white whale’s back; and at intervals one of the

cloud of soft-toed fowls hovering, and to and fro skimming like a canopy over

the fish, silently perched and rocked on this pole, the long tail feathers

streaming like pennons.


A gentle joyousness—a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, invested

the gliding whale. Not the white bull Jupiter swimming away with ravished

Europa clinging to his graceful horns; his lovely, leering eyes sideways intent

upon the maid; with smooth bewitching fleetness, rippling straight for the

nuptial bower in Crete; not Jove, not that great majesty Supreme! did surpass

the glorified White Whale as he so divinely swam.


On each soft side—coincident with the parted swell, that but once leaving

him, then flowed so wide away—on each bright side, the whale shed off

enticings. No wonder there had been some among the hunters who namelessly

transported and allured by all this serenity, had ventured to assail it; but

had fatally found that quietude but the vesture of tornadoes. Yet calm,

enticing calm, oh, whale! thou glidest on, to all who for the first time eye

thee, no matter how many in that same way thou may’st have bejuggled and

destroyed before.


And thus, through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea, among waves

whose hand-clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture, Moby Dick moved on,

still withholding from sight the full terrors of his submerged trunk, entirely

hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw. But soon the fore part of him

slowly rose from the water; for an instant his whole marbleized body formed a

high arch, like Virginia’s Natural Bridge, and warningly waving his

bannered flukes in the air, the grand god revealed himself, sounded, and went

out of sight. Hoveringly halting, and dipping on the wing, the white sea-fowls

longingly lingered over the agitated pool that he left.


With oars apeak, and paddles down, the sheets of their sails adrift, the three

boats now stilly floated, awaiting Moby Dick’s reappearance.


“An hour,” said Ahab, standing rooted in his boat’s stern;

and he gazed beyond the whale’s place, towards the dim blue spaces and

wide wooing vacancies to leeward. It was only an instant; for again his eyes

seemed whirling round in his head as he swept the watery circle. The breeze now

freshened; the sea began to swell.


“The birds!—the birds!” cried Tashtego.


In long Indian file, as when herons take wing, the white birds were now all

flying towards Ahab’s boat; and when within a few yards began fluttering

over the water there, wheeling round and round, with joyous, expectant cries.

Their vision was keener than man’s; Ahab could discover no sign in the

sea. But suddenly as he peered down and down into its depths, he profoundly saw

a white living spot no bigger than a white weasel, with wonderful celerity

uprising, and magnifying as it rose, till it turned, and then there were

plainly revealed two long crooked rows of white, glistening teeth, floating up

from the undiscoverable bottom. It was Moby Dick’s open mouth and

scrolled jaw; his vast, shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the

sea. The glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marble

tomb; and giving one side-long sweep with his steering oar, Ahab whirled the

craft aside from this tremendous apparition. Then, calling upon Fedallah to

change places with him, went forward to the bows, and seizing Perth’s

harpoon, commanded his crew to grasp their oars and stand by to stern.


Now, by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis, its bow,

by anticipation, was made to face the whale’s head while yet under water.

But as if perceiving this strategem, Moby Dick, with that malicious

intelligence ascribed to him, sidelingly transplanted himself, as it were, in

an instant, shooting his pleated head lengthwise beneath the boat.


Through and through; through every plank and each rib, it thrilled for an

instant, the whal

ast. He saw

that there was no mood of the mind that had not its counterpart in the sensuous

life, and set himself to discover their true relations, wondering what there

was in frankincense that made one mystical, and in ambergris that stirred

one’s passions, and in violets that woke the memory of dead romances, and

in musk that troubled the brain, and in champak that stained the imagination;

and seeking often to elaborate a real psychology of perfumes, and to estimate

the several influences of sweet-smelling roots and scented, pollen-laden

flowers; of aromatic balms and of dark and fragrant woods; of spikenard, that

sickens; of hovenia, that makes men mad; and of aloes, that are said to be able

to expel melancholy from the soul.


At another time he devoted himself entirely to music, and in a long latticed

room, with a vermilion-and-gold ceiling and walls of olive-green lacquer, he

used to give curious concerts in which mad gipsies tore wild music from little

zithers, or grave, yellow-shawled Tunisians plucked at the strained strings of

monstrous lutes, while grinning Negroes beat monotonously upon copper drums

and, crouching upon scarlet mats, slim turbaned Indians blew through long pipes

of reed or brass and charmed—or feigned to charm—great hooded

snakes and horrible horned adders. The harsh intervals and shrill discords of

barbaric music stirred him at times when Schubert’s grace, and

Chopin’s beautiful sorrows, and the mighty harmonies of Beethoven

himself, fell unheeded on his ear. He collected together from all parts of the

world the strangest instruments that could be found, either in the tombs of

dead nations or among the few savage tribes that have survived contact with

Western civilizations, and loved to touch and try them. He had the mysterious

juruparis of the Rio Negro Indians, that women are not allowed to look

at and that even youths may not see till they have been subjected to fasting

and scourging, and the earthen jars of the Peruvians that have the shrill cries

of birds, and flutes of human bones such as Alfonso de Ovalle heard in Chile,

and the sonorous green jaspers that are found near Cuzco and give forth a note

of singular sweetness. He had painted gourds filled with pebbles that rattled

when they were shaken; the long clarin of the Mexicans, into which the

performer does not blow, but through which he inhales the air; the harsh

ture of the Amazon tribes, that is sounded by the sentinels who sit all

day long in high trees, and can be heard, it is said, at a distance of three

leagues; the teponaztli, that has two vibrating tongues of wood and is

beaten with sticks that are smeared with an elastic gum obtained from the milky

juice of plants; the yotl-bells of the Aztecs, that are hung in clusters

like grapes; and a huge cylindrical drum, covered with the skins of great

serpents, like the one that Bernal Diaz saw when he went with Cortes into the

Mexican temple, and of whose doleful sound he has left us so vivid a

description. The fantastic character of these instruments fascinated him, and

he felt a curious delight in the thought that art, like Nature, has her

monsters, things of bestial shape and with hideous voices. Yet, after some

time, he wearied of them, and would sit in his box at the opera, either alone

or with Lord Henry, listening in rapt pleasure to “Tannhauser” and

seeing in the prelude to that great work of art a presentation of the tragedy

of his own soul.


On one occasion he took up the study of jewels, and appeared at a costume ball

as Anne de Joyeuse, Admiral of France, in a dress covered with five hundred and

sixty pearls. This taste enthralled him for years, and, indeed, may be said

never to have left him. He would often spend a whole day settling and

resettling in their cases the various stones that he had collected, such as the

olive-green chrysoberyl that turns red by lamplight, the cymophane with its

wirelike line of silver, the pistachio-coloured peridot, rose-pink and

wine-yellow topazes, carbuncles of fiery scarlet with tremulous, four-rayed

stars, flame-red cinnamon-stones, orange and violet spinels, and amethysts with

their alternate layers of ruby and sapphire. He loved the red gold of the

sunstone, and the moonstone’s pearly whiteness, and the broken rainbow of

the milky opal. He procured from Amsterdam three emeralds of extraordinary size

and richness of colour, and had a turquoise de la vieille roche that was

the envy of all the connoisseurs.


He discovered wonderful stories, also, about jewels. In Alphonso’s

Clericalis Disciplina a serpent was mentioned with eyes of real jacinth, and in

the romantic history of Alexander, the Conqueror of Emathia was said to have

found in the vale of Jordan snakes “with collars of real emeralds growing

on their backs.” There was a gem in the brain of the dragon, Philostratus

told us, and “by the exhibition of golden letters and a scarlet

robe” the monster could be thrown into a magical sleep and slain.

According to the great alchemist, Pierre de Boniface, the diamond rendered a

man invisible, and the agate of India made him eloquent. The cornelian appeased

anger, and the hyacinth provoked sleep, and the amethyst drove away the fumes

of wine. The garnet cast out demons, and the hydropicus deprived the moon of

her colour. The selenite waxed and waned with the moon, and the meloceus, that

discovers thieves, could be affected only by the blood of kids. Leonardus

Camillus had seen a white stone taken from the brain of a newly killed toad,

that was a certain antidote against poison. The bezoar, that was found in the

heart of the Arabian deer, was a charm that could cure the plague. In the nests

of Arabian birds was the aspilates, that, according to Democritus, kept the

wearer from any danger by fire.


The King of Ceilan rode through his city with a large ruby in his hand, as the

ceremony of his coronation. The gates of the palace of John the Priest were

“made of sardius, with the horn of the horned snake inwrought, so that no

man might bring poison within.” Over the gable were “two golden

apples, in which were two carbuncles,” so that the gold might shine by

day and the carbuncles by night. In Lodge’s strange romance ‘A

Margarite of America’, it was stated that in the chamber of the queen one

could behold “all the chaste ladies of the world, inchased out of silver,

looking through fair mirrours of chrysolites, carbuncles, sapphires, and greene

emeraults.” Marco Polo had seen the inhabitants of Zipangu place

rose-coloured pearls in the mouths of the dead. A sea-monster had been

enamoured of the pearl that the diver brought to King Perozes, and had slain

the thief, and mourned for seven moons over its loss. When the Huns lured the

king into the great pit, he flung it away—Procopius tells the

story—nor was it ever found again, though the Emperor Anastasius offered

five hundred-weight of gold pieces for it. The King of Malabar had shown to a

certain Venetian a rosary of three hundred and four pearls, one for every god

that he worshipped.


When the Duke de Valentinois, son of Alexander VI., visited Louis XII. of

France, his horse was loaded with gold leaves, according to Brantome, and his

cap had double rows of rubies that threw out a great light. Charles of England

had ridden in stirrups hung with four hundred and twenty-one diamonds. Richard

II had a coat, valued at thirty thousand marks, which was covered with balas

rubies. Hall described Henry VIII., on his way to the Tower previous to his

coronation, as wearing “a jacket of raised gold, the placard embroidered

with diamonds and other rich stones, and a great bauderike about his neck of

large balasses.” The favourites of James I wore ear-rings of emeralds set

in gold filigrane. Edward II gave to Piers Gaveston a suit of red-gold armour

studded with jacinths, a collar of gold roses set with turquoise-stones, and a

skull-cap parsemé with pearls. Henry II. wore jewelled gloves reaching

to the elbow, and had a hawk-glove sewn with twelve rubies and fifty-two great

orients. The ducal hat of Charles the Rash, the last Duke of Burgundy of his

race, was hung with pear-shaped pearls and studded with sapphires.


How exquisite life had once been! How gorgeous in its pomp and decoration! Even

to read of the luxury of the dead was wonderful.


Then he turned his attention to embroideries and to the tapestries that

performed the office of frescoes in the chill rooms of the northern nations of

Europe. As he investigated the subject—and he always had an extraordinary

faculty of becoming absolutely absorbed for the moment in whatever he took

up—he was almost saddened by the reflection of the ruin that time brought

on beautiful and wonderful things. He, at any rate, had escaped that. Summer

followed summer, and the yellow jonquils bloomed and died many times, and

nights of horror repeated the story of their shame, but he was unchanged. No

winter marred his face or stained his flowerlike bloom. How different it was

with material things! Where had they passed to? Where was the great

crocus-coloured robe, on which the gods fought against the giants, that had

been worked by brown girls for the pleasure of Athena? Where the huge velarium

that Nero had stretched across the Colosseum at Rome, that Titan sail of purple

on which was represented the starry sky, and Apollo driving a chariot drawn by

white, gilt-reined steeds? He longed to see the curious table-napkins wrought

for the Priest of the Sun, on which were displayed all the dainties and viands

that could be wanted for a feast; the mortuary cloth of King Chilperic, with

its three hundred golden bees; the fantastic robes that excited the indignation

of the Bishop of Pontus and were figured with “lions, panthers, bears,

dogs, forests, rocks, hunters—all, in fact, that a painter can copy from

nature”; and the coat that Charles of Orleans once wore, on the sleeves

of which were embroidered the verses of a song beginning “Madame, je

suis tout joyeux,” the musical accompaniment of the words being

wrought in gold thread, and each note, of square shape in those days, formed

with four pearls. He read of the room that was prepared at the palace at Rheims

for the use of Queen Joan of Burgundy and was decorated with “thirteen

hundred and twenty-one parrots, made in broidery, and blazoned with the

king’s arms, and five hundred and sixty-one butterflies, whose wings were

similarly ornamented with the arms of the queen, the whole worked in

gold.” Catherine de Medicis had a mourning-bed made for her of black

velvet powdered with crescents and suns. Its curtains were of damask, with

leafy wreaths and garlands, figured upon a gold and silver ground, and fringed

along the edges with broideries of pearls, and it stood in a room hung with

rows of the queen’s devices in cut black velvet upon cloth of silver.

Louis XIV. had gold embroidered caryatides fifteen feet high in his apartment.

The state bed of Sobieski, King of Poland, was made of Smyrna gold brocade

embroidered in turquoises with verses from the Koran. Its supports were of

silver gilt, beautifully chased, and profusely set with enamelled and jewelled

medallions. It had been taken from the Turkish camp before Vienna, and the

standard of Mohammed had stood beneath the tremulous gilt of its canopy.


And so, for a whole year, he sought to accumulate the most exquisite specimens

that he could find of textile and embroidered work, getting the dainty Delhi

muslins, finely wrought with gold-thread palmates and stitched over with

iridescent beetles’ wings; the Dacca gauzes, that from their transparency

are known in the East as “woven air,” and “running

water,” and “evening dew”; strange figured cloths from Java;

elaborate yellow Chinese hangings; books bound in tawny satins or fair blue

silks and wrought with fleurs-de-lis, birds and images; veils of

lacis worked in Hungary point; Sicilian brocades and stiff Spanish

velvets; Georgian work, with its gilt coins, and Japanese Foukousas,

with their green-toned golds and their marvellously plumaged birds.


He had a special passion, also, for ecclesiastical vestments, as indeed he had

for everything connected with the service of the Church. In the long cedar

chests that lined the west gallery of his house, he had stored away many rare

and beautiful specimens of what is really the raiment of the Bride of Christ,

who must wear purple and jewels and fine linen that she may hide the pallid

macerated body that is worn by the suffering that she seeks for and wounded by

self-inflicted pain. He possessed a gorgeous cope of crimson silk and

gold-thread damask, figured with a repeating pattern of golden pomegranates set

in six-petalled formal blossoms, beyond which on either side was the pine-apple

device wrought in seed-pearls. The orphreys were divided into panels

representing scenes from the life of the Virgin, and the coronation of the

Virgin was figured in coloured silks upon the hood. This was Italian work of

the fifteenth century. Another cope was of green velvet, embroidered with

heart-shaped groups of acanthus-leaves, from which spread long-stemmed white

blossoms, the details of which were picked out with silver thread and coloured

crystals. The morse bore a seraph’s head in gold-thread raised work. The

orphreys were woven in a diaper of red and gold silk, and were starred with

medallions of many saints and martyrs, among whom was St. Sebastian. He had

chasubles, also, of amber-coloured silk, and blue silk and gold brocade, and

yellow silk damask and cloth of gold, figured with representations of the

Passion and Crucifixion of Christ, and embroidered with lions and peacocks and

other emblems; dalmatics of white satin and pink silk damask, decorated with

tulips and dolphins and fleurs-de-lis; altar frontals of crimson velvet

and blue linen; and many corporals, chalice-veils, and sudaria. In the mystic

offices to which such things were put, there was something that quickened his

imagination.


For these treasures, and everything that he collected in his lovely house, were

to be to him means of forgetfulness, modes by which he could escape, for a

season, from the fear that seemed to him at times to be almost too great to be

borne. Upon the walls of the lonely locked room where he had spent so much of

his boyhood, he had hung with his own hands the terrible portrait whose

changing features showed him the real degradation of his life, and in front of

it had draped the purple-and-gold pall as a curtain. For weeks he would not go

there, would forget the hideous painted thing, and get back his light heart,

his wonderful joyousness, his passionate absorption in mere existence. Then,

suddenly, some night he would creep out of the house, go down to dreadful

places near Blue Gate Fields, and stay there, day after day, until he was

driven away. On his return he would sit in front of the picture, sometimes

loathing it and himself, but filled, at other times, with that pride of

individualism that is half the fascination of sin, and smiling with secret

pleasure at the misshapen shadow that had to bear the burden that should have

been his own.


After a few years he could not endure to be long out of England, and gave up

the villa that he had shared at Trouville with Lord Henry, as well as the

little white walled-in house at Algiers where they had more than once spent the

winter. He hated to be separated from the picture that was such a part of his

life, and was also afraid that during his absence some one might gain access to

the room, in spite of the elaborate bars that he had caused to be placed upon

the door.


He was quite conscious that this would tell them nothing. It was true that the

portrait still preserved, under all the foulness and ugliness of the face, its

marked likeness to himself; but what could they learn from that? He would laugh

at any one who tried to taunt him. He had not painted it. What was it to him

how vile and full of shame it looked? Even if he told them, would they believe

it?


Yet he was afraid. Sometimes when he was down at his great house in

Nottinghamshire, entertaining the fashionable young men of his own rank who

were his chief companions, and astounding the county by the wanton luxury and

gorgeous splendour of his mode of life, he would suddenly leave his guests and

rush back to town to see that the door had not been tampered with and that the

picture was still there. What if it should be stolen? The mere thought made him

cold with horror. Surely the world would know his secret then. Perhaps the

world already suspected it.


For, while he fascinated many, there were not a few who distrusted him. He was

very nearly blackballed at a West End club of which his birth and social

position fully entitled him to become a member, and it was said that on one

occasion, when he was brought by a friend into the smoking-room of the

Churchill, the Duke of Berwick and another gentleman got up in a marked manner

and went out. Curious stories became current about him after he had passed his

twenty-fifth year. It was rumoured that he had been seen brawling with foreign

sailors in a low den in the distant parts of Whitechapel, and that he consorted

with thieves and coiners and knew the mysteries of their trade. His

extraordinary absences became notorious, and, when he used to reappear again in

society, men would whisper to each other in corners, or pass him with a sneer,

or look at him with cold searching eyes, as though they were determined to

discover his secret.


Of such insolences and attempted slights he, of course, took no notice, and in

the opinion of most people his frank debonair manner, his charming boyish

smile, and the infinite grace of that wonderful youth that seemed never to

leave him, were in themselves a sufficient answer to the calumnies, for so they

termed them, that were circulated about him. It was remarked, however, that

some of those who had been most intimate with him appeared, after a time, to

shun him. Women who had wildly adored him, and for his sake had braved all

social censure and set convention at defiance, were seen to grow pallid with

shame or horror if Dorian Gray entered the room.


Yet these whispered scandals only increased in the eyes of many his strange and

dangerous charm. His great wealth was a certain element of security.

Society—civilized society, at least—is never very ready to believe

anything to the detriment of those who are both rich and fascinating. It feels

instinctively that manners are of more importance than morals, and, in its

opinion, the highest respectability is of much less value than the possession

of a good chef. And, after all, it is a very poor consolation to be told

that the man who has given one a bad dinner, or poor wine, is irreproachable in

his private life. Even the cardinal virtues cannot atone for half-cold

entrées, as Lord Henry remarked once, in a discussion on the subject,

and there is possibly a good deal to be said for his view. For the canons of

good society are, or should be, the same as the canons of art. Form is

absolutely essential to it. It should have the dignity of a ceremony, as well

as its unreality, and should com

The last change, from three to seven

years, is well known to have been introduced pretty early in the present

century, under on alarm for the Hanoverian succession. From these facts it

appears that the greatest frequency of elections which has been deemed

necessary in that kingdom, for binding the representatives to their

constituents, does not exceed a triennial return of them. And if we may argue

from the degree of liberty retained even under septennial elections, and all

the other vicious ingredients in the parliamentary constitution, we cannot

doubt that a reduction of the period from seven to three years, with the other

necessary reforms, would so far extend the influence of the people over their

representatives as to satisfy us that biennial elections, under the federal

system, cannot possibly be dangerous to the requisite dependence of the House

of Representatives on their constituents. Elections in Ireland, till of late,

were regulated entirely by the discretion of the crown, and were seldom

repeated, except on the accession of a new prince, or some other contingent

event. The parliament which commenced with George II. was continued throughout

his whole reign, a period of about thirty-five years. The only dependence of

the representatives on the people consisted in the right of the latter to

supply occasional vacancies by the election of new members, and in the chance

of some event which might produce a general new election.


The ability also of the Irish parliament to maintain the rights of their

constituents, so far as the disposition might exist, was extremely shackled by

the control of the crown over the subjects of their deliberation. Of late these

shackles, if I mistake not, have been broken; and octennial parliaments have

besides been established. What effect may be produced by this partial reform,

must be left to further experience. The example of Ireland, from this view of

it, can throw but little light on the subject. As far as we can draw any

conclusion from it, it must be that if the people of that country have been

able under all these disadvantages to retain any liberty whatever, the

advantage of biennial elections would secure to them every degree of liberty,

which might depend on a due connection between their representatives and

themselves. Let us bring our inquiries nearer home. The example of these

States, when British colonies, claims particular attention, at the same time

that it is so well known as to require little to be said on it. The principle

of representation, in one branch of the legislature at least, was established

in all of them. But the periods of election were different. They varied from

one to seven years. Have we any reason to infer, from the spirit and conduct of

the representatives of the people, prior to the Revolution, that biennial

elections would have been dangerous to the public liberties? The spirit which

everywhere displayed itself at the commencement of the struggle, and which

vanquished the obstacles to independence, is the best of proofs that a

sufficient portion of liberty had been everywhere enjoyed to inspire both a

sense of its worth and a zeal for its proper enlargement This remark holds

good, as well with regard to the then colonies whose elections were least

frequent, as to those whose elections were most frequent Virginia was the

colony which stood first in resisting the parliamentary usurpations of Great

Britain; it was the first also in espousing, by public act, the resolution of

independence.


In Virginia, nevertheless, if I have not been misinformed, elections under the

former government were septennial. This particular example is brought into

view, not as a proof of any peculiar merit, for the priority in those instances

was probably accidental; and still less of any advantage in SEPTENNIAL

elections, for when compared with a greater frequency they are inadmissible;

but merely as a proof, and I conceive it to be a very substantial proof, that

the liberties of the people can be in no danger from BIENNIAL elections. The

conclusion resulting from these examples will be not a little strengthened by

recollecting three circumstances. The first is, that the federal legislature

will possess a part only of that supreme legislative authority which is vested

completely in the British Parliament; and which, with a few exceptions, was

exercised by the colonial assemblies and the Irish legislature. It is a

received and well-founded maxim, that where no other circumstances affect the

case, the greater the power is, the shorter ought to be its duration; and,

conversely, the smaller the power, the more safely may its duration be

protracted. In the second place, it has, on another occasion, been shown that

the federal legislature will not only be restrained by its dependence on its

people, as other legislative bodies are, but that it will be, moreover, watched

and controlled by the several collateral legislatures, which other legislative

bodies are not. And in the third place, no comparison can be made between the

means that will be possessed by the more permanent branches of the federal

government for seducing, if they should be disposed to seduce, the House of

Representatives from their duty to the people, and the means of influence over

the popular branch possessed by the other branches of the government above

cited. With less power, therefore, to abuse, the federal representatives can be

less tempted on one side, and will be doubly watched on the other.


PUBLIUS.


THE FEDERALIST.

No. LIII.


The Same Subject Continued (The House of Representatives)


From the New York Packet. Tuesday, February 12, 1788.


HAMILTON OR MADISON


To the People of the State of New York:


I shall here, perhaps, be reminded of a current observation, “that where

annual elections end, tyranny begins. “ If it be true, as has often been

remarked, that sayings which become proverbial are generally founded in reason,

it is not less true, that when once established, they are often applied to

cases to which the reason of them does not extend. I need not look for a proof

beyond the case before us. What is the reason on which this proverbial

observation is founded? No man will subject himself to the ridicule of

pretending that any natural connection subsists between the sun or the seasons,

and the period within which human virtue can bear the temptations of power.

Happily for mankind, liberty is not, in this respect, confined to any single

point of time; but lies within extremes, which afford sufficient latitude for

all the variations which may be required by the various situations and

circumstances of civil society. The election of magistrates might be, if it

were found expedient, as in some instances it actually has been, daily, weekly,

or monthly, as well as annual; and if circumstances may require a deviation

from the rule on one side, why not also on the other side? Turning our

attention to the periods established among ourselves, for the election of the

most numerous branches of the State legislatures, we find them by no means

coinciding any more in this instance, than in the elections of other civil

magistrates. In Connecticut and Rhode Island, the periods are half-yearly. In

the other States, South Carolina excepted, they are annual. In South Carolina

they are biennial as is proposed in the federal government. Here is a

difference, as four to one, between the longest and shortest periods; and yet

it would be not easy to show, that Connecticut or Rhode Island is better

governed, or enjoys a greater share of rational liberty, than South Carolina;

or that either the one or the other of these States is distinguished in these

respects, and by these causes, from the States whose elections are different

from both. In searching for the grounds of this doctrine, I can discover but

one, and that is wholly inapplicable to our case. The important distinction so

well understood in America, between a Constitution established by the people

and unalterable by the government, and a law established by the government and

alterable by the government, seems to have been little understood and less

observed in any other country. Wherever the supreme power of legislation has

resided, has been supposed to reside also a full power to change the form of

the government. Even in Great Britain, where the principles of political and

civil liberty have been most discussed, and where we hear most of the rights of

the Constitution, it is maintained that the authority of the Parliament is

transcendent and uncontrollable, as well with regard to the Constitution, as

the ordinary objects of legislative provision. They have accordingly, in

several instances, actually changed, by legislative acts, some of the most

fundamental articles of the government. They have in particular, on several

occasions, changed the period of election; and, on the last occasion, not only

introduced septennial in place of triennial elections, but by the same act,

continued themselves in place four years beyond the term for which they were

elected by the people. An attention to these dangerous practices has produced a

very natural alarm in the votaries of free government, of which frequency of

elections is the corner-stone; and has led them to seek for some security to

liberty, against the danger to which it is exposed. Where no Constitution,

paramount to the government, either existed or could be obtained, no

constitutional security, similar to that established in the United States, was

to be attempted. Some other security, therefore, was to be sought for; and what

better security would the case admit, than that of selecting and appealing to

some simple and familiar portion of time, as a standard for measuring the

danger of innovations, for fixing the national sentiment, and for uniting the

patriotic exertions? The most simple and familiar portion of time, applicable

to the subject was that of a year; and hence the doctrine has been inculcated

by a laudable zeal, to erect some barrier against the gradual innovations of an

unlimited government, that the advance towards tyranny was to be calculated by

the distance of departure from the fixed point of annual elections. But what

necessity can there be of applying this expedient to a government limited, as

the federal government will be, by the authority of a paramount Constitution?

Or who will pretend that the liberties of the people of America will not be

more secure under biennial elections, unalterably fixed by such a Constitution,

than those of any other nation would be, where elections were annual, or even

more frequent, but subject to alterations by the ordinary power of the

government? The second question stated is, whether biennial elections be

necessary or useful. The propriety of answering this question in the

affirmative will appear from several very obvious considerations. No man can be

a competent legislator who does not add to an upright intention and a sound

judgment a certain degree of knowledge of the subjects on which he is to

legislate. A part of this knowledge may be acquired by means of information

which lie within the compass of men in private as well as public stations.

Another part can only be attained, or at least thoroughly attained, by actual

experience in the station which requires the use of it. The period of service,

ought, therefore, in all such cases, to bear some proportion to the extent of

practical knowledge requisite to the due performance of the service. The period

of legislative service established in most of the States for the more numerous

branch is, as we have seen, one year. The question then may be put into this

simple form: does the period of two years bear no greater proportion to the

knowledge requisite for federal legislation than one year does to the knowledge

requisite for State legislation? The very statement of the question, in this

form, suggests the answer that ought to be given to it. In a single State, the

requisite knowledge relates to the existing laws which are uniform throughout

the State, and with which all the citizens are more or less conversant; and to

the general affairs of the State, which lie within a small compass, are not

very diversified, and occupy much of the attention and conversation of every

class of people. The great theatre of the United States presents a very

different scene. The laws are so far from being uniform, that they vary in

every State; whilst the public affairs of the Union are spread throughout a

very extensive region, and are extremely diversified by t e local affairs

connected with them, and can with difficulty be correctly learnt in any other

place than in the central councils to which a knowledge of them will be brought

by the representatives of every part of the empire. Yet some knowledge of the

affairs, and even of the laws, of all the States, ought to be possessed by the

members from each of the States. How can foreign trade be properly regulated by

uniform laws, without some acquaintance with the commerce, the ports, the

usages, and the regulatious of the different States? How can the trade between

the different States be duly regulated, without some knowledge of their

relative situations in these and other respects? How can taxes be judiciously

imposed and effectually collected, if they be not accommodated to the different

laws and local circumstances relating to these objects in the different States?

How can uniform regulations for the militia be duly provided, without a similar

knowledge of many internal circumstances by which the States are distinguished

from each other? These are the principal objects of federal legislation, and

suggest most forcibly the extensive information which the representatives ought

to acquire. The other interior objects will require a proportional degree of

information with regard to them. It is true that all these difficulties will,

by degrees, be very much diminished. The most laborious task will be the proper

inauguration of the government and the primeval formation of a federal code.

Improvements on the first draughts will every year become both easier and

fewer. Past transactions of the government will be a ready and accurate source

of information to new members. The affairs of the Union will become more and

more objects of curiosity and conversation among the citizens at large. And the

increased intercourse among those of different States will contribute not a

little to diffuse a mutual knowledge of their affairs, as this again will

contribute to a general assimilation of their manners and laws. But with all

these abatements, the business of federal legislation must continue so far to

exceed, both in novelty and difficulty, the legislative business of a single

State, as to justify the longer period of service assigned to those who are to

transact it. A branch of knowledge which belongs to the acquirements of a

federal representative, and which has not been mentioned is that of foreign

affairs. In regulating our own commerce he ought to be not only acquainted with

the treaties between the United States and other nations, but also with the

commercial policy and laws of other nations. He ought not to be altogether

ignorant of the law of nations; for that, as far as it is a proper object of

municipal legislation, is submitted to the federal government.


And although the House of Representatives is not immediately to participate in

foreign negotiations and arrangements, yet from the necessary connection

between the several branches of public affairs, those particular branches will

frequently deserve attention in the ordinary course of legislation, and will

sometimes demand particular legislative sanction and co-operation. Some portion

of this knowledge may, no doubt, be acquired in a man’s closet; but some

of it also can only be derived from the public sources of information; and all

of it will be acquired to best effect by a practical attention to the subject

during the period of actual service in the legislature.


There are other considerations, of less importance, perhaps, but which are not

unworthy of notice. The distance which many of the representatives will be

obliged to travel, and the arrangements rendered necessary by that

circumstance, might be much more serious objections with fit men to this

service, if limited to a single year, than if extended to two years. No

argument can be drawn on this subject, from the case of the delegates to the

existing Congress. They are elected annually, it is true; but their re-election

is considered by the legislative assemblies almost as a matter of course. The

election of the representatives by the people would not be governed by the same

principle. A few of the members, as happens in all such assemblies, will

possess superior talents; will, by frequent reelections, become members of long

standing; will be thoroughly masters of the public business, and perhaps not

unwilling to avail themselves of those advantages. The greater the proportion

of new members, and the less the information of the bulk of the members the

more apt will they be to fall into the snares that may be laid for them. This

remark is no less applicable to the relation which will subsist between the

House of Representatives and the Senate. It is an inconvenience mingled with

the advantages of our frequent elections even in single States, where they are

large, and hold but one legislative session in a year, that spurious elections

cannot be investigated and annulled in time for the decision to have its due

effect. If a return can be obtained, no matter by what unlawful means, the

irregular member, who takes his seat of course, is sure of holding it a

sufficient time to answer his purposes. Hence, a very pernicious encouragement

is given to the use of unlawful means, for obtaining irregular returns. Were

elections for the federal legislature to be annual, this practice might become

a very serious abuse, particularly in the more distant States. Each house is,

as it necessarily must be, the judge of the elections, qualifications, and

returns of its members; and whatever improvements may be suggested by

experience, for simplifying and accelerating the process in disputed cases, so

great a portion of a year would unavoidably elapse, before an illegitimate

member could be dispossessed of his seat, that the prospect of such an event

would be little check to unfair and illicit means of obtaining a seat. All

these considerations taken together warrant us in affirming, that biennial

elections will be as useful to the affairs of the public as we have seen that

they will be safe to the liberty of the people.


PUBLIUS.


THE FEDERALIST.

No. LIV.


The Apportionment of Members Among the States


From the New York Packet. Tuesday, February 12, 1788.


HAMILTON OR MADISON


To the People of the State of New York:


The next view which I shall take of the House of Representatives relates to the

appointment of its members to the several States which is to be determined by

the same rule with that of direct taxes. It is not contended that the number of

people in each State ought not to be the standard for r

lar protected thus sedulously, and doubted not

that it was Rowena whom the knight was carrying off, in despite of all

resistance which could be offered.


“By the soul of Saint Edward,” he said, “I will rescue her

from yonder over-proud knight, and he shall die by my hand!”


“Think what you do!” cried Wamba; “hasty hand catches frog

for fish—by my bauble, yonder is none of my Lady Rowena—see but her

long dark locks!—Nay, an ye will not know black from white, ye may be

leader, but I will be no follower—no bones of mine shall be broken unless

I know for whom.—And you without armour too!—Bethink you, silk

bonnet never kept out steel blade.—Nay, then, if wilful will to water,

wilful must drench.—‘Deus vobiscum’, most doughty

Athelstane!”—he concluded, loosening the hold which he had hitherto

kept upon the Saxon’s tunic.


To snatch a mace from the pavement, on which it lay beside one whose dying

grasp had just relinquished it—to rush on the Templar’s band, and

to strike in quick succession to the right and left, levelling a warrior at

each blow, was, for Athelstane’s great strength, now animated with

unusual fury, but the work of a single moment; he was soon within two yards of

Bois-Guilbert, whom he defied in his loudest tone.


“Turn, false-hearted Templar! let go her whom thou art unworthy to

touch—turn, limb of a hand of murdering and hypocritical robbers!”


“Dog!” said the Templar, grinding his teeth, “I will teach

thee to blaspheme the holy Order of the Temple of Zion;” and with these

words, half-wheeling his steed, he made a demi-courbette towards the Saxon, and

rising in the stirrups, so as to take full advantage of the descent of the

horse, he discharged a fearful blow upon the head of Athelstane.


Well said Wamba, that silken bonnet keeps out no steel blade. So trenchant was

the Templar’s weapon, that it shore asunder, as it had been a willow

twig, the tough and plaited handle of the mace, which the ill-fated Saxon

reared to parry the blow, and, descending on his head, levelled him with the

earth.


“‘Ha! Beau-seant!’” exclaimed Bois-Guilbert,

“thus be it to the maligners of the Temple-knights!” Taking

advantage of the dismay which was spread by the fall of Athelstane, and calling

aloud, “Those who would save themselves, follow me!” he pushed

across the drawbridge, dispersing the archers who would have intercepted them.

He was followed by his Saracens, and some five or six men-at-arms, who had

mounted their horses. The Templar’s retreat was rendered perilous by the

numbers of arrows shot off at him and his party; but this did not prevent him

from galloping round to the barbican, of which, according to his previous plan,

he supposed it possible De Bracy might have been in possession.


“De Bracy! De Bracy!” he shouted, “art thou there?”


“I am here,” replied De Bracy, “but I am a prisoner.”


“Can I rescue thee?” cried Bois-Guilbert.


“No,” replied De Bracy; “I have rendered me, rescue or no

rescue. I will be true prisoner. Save thyself—there are hawks

abroad—put the seas betwixt you and England—I dare not say

more.”


“Well,” answered the Templar, “an thou wilt tarry there,

remember I have redeemed word and glove. Be the hawks where they will, methinks

the walls of the Preceptory of Templestowe will be cover sufficient, and

thither will I, like heron to her haunt.”


Having thus spoken, he galloped off with his followers.


Those of the castle who had not gotten to horse, still continued to fight

desperately with the besiegers, after the departure of the Templar, but rather

in despair of quarter than that they entertained any hope of escape. The fire

was spreading rapidly through all parts of the castle, when Ulrica, who had

first kindled it, appeared on a turret, in the guise of one of the ancient

furies, yelling forth a war-song, such as was of yore raised on the field of

battle by the scalds of the yet heathen Saxons. Her long dishevelled grey hair

flew back from her uncovered head; the inebriating delight of gratified

vengeance contended in her eyes with the fire of insanity; and she brandished

the distaff which she held in her hand, as if she had been one of the Fatal

Sisters, who spin and abridge the thread of human life. Tradition has preserved

some wild strophes of the barbarous hymn which she chanted wildly amid that

scene of fire and of slaughter:—


1.

Whet the bright steel,

Sons of the White Dragon!

Kindle the torch,

Daughter of Hengist!

The steel glimmers not for the carving of the banquet,

It is hard, broad, and sharply pointed;

The torch goeth not to the bridal chamber,

It steams and glitters blue with sulphur.

Whet the steel, the raven croaks!

Light the torch, Zernebock is yelling!

Whet the steel, sons of the Dragon!

Kindle the torch, daughter of Hengist!


2.

The black cloud is low over the thane’s castle

The eagle screams—he rides on its bosom.

Scream not, grey rider of the sable cloud,

Thy banquet is prepared!

The maidens of Valhalla look forth,

The race of Hengist will send them guests.

Shake your black tresses, maidens of Valhalla!

And strike your loud timbrels for joy!

Many a haughty step bends to your halls,

Many a helmed head.


3.

Dark sits the evening upon the thanes castle,

The black clouds gather round;

Soon shall they be red as the blood of the valiant!

The destroyer of forests shall shake his red crest against

them.

He, the bright consumer of palaces,

Broad waves he his blazing banner,

Red, wide and dusky,

Over the strife of the valiant:

His joy is in the clashing swords and broken bucklers;

He loves to lick the hissing blood as it bursts warm from the

wound!


4.

All must perish!

The sword cleaveth the helmet;

The strong armour is pierced by the lance;

Fire devoureth the dwelling of princes,

Engines break down the fences of the battle.

All must perish!

The race of Hengist is gone—

The name of Horsa is no more!

Shrink not then from your doom, sons of the sword!

Let your blades drink blood like wine;

Feast ye in the banquet of slaughter,

By the light of the blazing halls!

Strong be your swords while your blood is warm,

And spare neither for pity nor fear,

For vengeance hath but an hour;

Strong hate itself shall expire

I also must perish! 39


The towering flames had now surmounted every obstruction, and rose to the

evening skies one huge and burning beacon, seen far and wide through the

adjacent country. Tower after tower crashed down, with blazing roof and rafter;

and the combatants were driven from the court-yard. The vanquished, of whom

very few remained, scattered and escaped into the neighbouring wood. The

victors, assembling in large bands, gazed with wonder, not unmixed with fear,

upon the flames, in which their own ranks and arms glanced dusky red. The

maniac figure of the Saxon Ulrica was for a long time visible on the lofty

stand she had chosen, tossing her arms abroad with wild exultation, as if she

reined empress of the conflagration which she had raised. At length, with a

terrific crash, the whole turret gave way, and she perished in the flames which

had consumed her tyrant. An awful pause of horror silenced each murmur of the

armed spectators, who, for the space of several minutes, stirred not a finger,

save to sign the cross. The voice of Locksley was then heard, “Shout,

yeomen!—the den of tyrants is no more! Let each bring his spoil to our

chosen place of rendezvous at the Trysting-tree in the Harthill-walk; for there

at break of day will we make just partition among our own bands, together with

our worthy allies in this great deed of vengeance.”


CHAPTER XXXII.


Trust me each state must have its policies:

Kingdoms have edicts, cities have their charters;

Even the wild outlaw, in his forest-walk,

Keeps yet some touch of civil discipline;

For not since Adam wore his verdant apron,

Hath man with man in social union dwelt,

But laws were made to draw that union closer.


OLD PLAY


The daylight had dawned upon the glades of the oak forest. The green boughs

glittered with all their pearls of dew. The hind led her fawn from the covert

of high fern to the more open walks of the greenwood, and no huntsman was there

to watch or intercept the stately hart, as he paced at the head of the

antler’d herd.


The outlaws were all assembled around the Trysting-tree in the Harthill-walk,

where they had spent the night in refreshing themselves after the fatigues of

the siege, some with wine, some with slumber, many with hearing and recounting

the events of the day, and computing the heaps of plunder which their success

had placed at the disposal of their Chief.


The spoils were indeed very large; for, notwithstanding that much was consumed,

a great deal of plate, rich armour, and splendid clothing, had been secured by

the exertions of the dauntless outlaws, who could be appalled by no danger when

such rewards were in view. Yet so strict were the laws of their society, that

no one ventured to appropriate any part of the booty, which was brought into

one common mass, to be at the disposal of their leader.


The place of rendezvous was an aged oak; not however the same to which Locksley

had conducted Gurth and Wamba in the earlier part of the story, but one which

was the centre of a silvan amphitheatre, within half a mile of the demolished

castle of Torquilstone. Here Locksley assumed his seat—a throne of turf

erected under the twisted branches of the huge oak, and the silvan followers

were gathered around him. He assigned to the Black Knight a seat at his right

hand, and to Cedric a place upon his left.


“Pardon my freedom, noble sirs,” he said, “but in these

glades I am monarch—they are my kingdom; and these my wild subjects would

reck but little of my power, were I, within my own dominions, to yield place to

mortal man.—Now, sirs, who hath seen our chaplain? where is our curtal

Friar? A mass amongst Christian men best begins a busy morning.”—No

one had seen the Clerk of Copmanhurst. “Over gods forbode!” said

the outlaw chief, “I trust the jolly priest hath but abidden by the

wine-pot a thought too late. Who saw him since the castle was

ta’en?”


“I,” quoth the Miller, “marked him busy about the door of a

cellar, swearing by each saint in the calendar he would taste the smack of

Front-de-Bœuf’s Gascoigne wine.”


“Now, the saints, as many as there be of them,” said the Captain,

“forefend, lest he has drunk too deep of the wine-butts, and perished by

the fall of the castle!—Away, Miller!—take with you enow of men,

seek the place where you last saw him—throw water from the moat on the

scorching ruins—I will have them removed stone by stone ere I lose my

curtal Friar.”


The numbers who hastened to execute this duty, considering that an interesting

division of spoil was about to take place, showed how much the troop had at

heart the safety of their spiritual father.


“Meanwhile, let us proceed,” said Locksley; “for when this

bold deed shall be sounded abroad, the bands of De Bracy, of Malvoisin, and

other allies of Front-de-Bœuf, will be in motion against us, and it were well

for our safety that we retreat from the vicinity.—Noble Cedric,” he

said, turning to the Saxon, “that spoil is divided into two portions; do

thou make choice of that which best suits thee, to recompense thy people who

were partakers with us in this adventure.”


“Good yeoman,” said Cedric, “my heart is oppressed with

sadness. The noble Athelstane of Coningsburgh is no more—the last sprout

of the sainted Confessor! Hopes have perished with him which can never

return!—A sparkle hath been quenched by his blood, which no human breath

can again rekindle! My people, save the few who are now with me, do but tarry

my presence to transport his honoured remains to their last mansion. The Lady

Rowena is desirous to return to Rotherwood, and must be escorted by a

sufficient force. I should, therefore, ere now, have left this place; and I

waited—not to share the booty, for, so help me God and Saint Withold! as

neither I nor any of mine will touch the value of a liard,—I waited but

to render my thanks to thee and to thy bold yeomen, for the life and honour ye

have saved.”


“Nay, but,” said the chief Outlaw, “we did but half the work

at most—take of the spoil what may reward your own neighbours and

followers.”


“I am rich enough to reward them from mine own wealth,” answered

Cedric.


“And some,” said Wamba, “have been wise enough to reward

themselves; they do not march off empty-handed altogether. We do not all wear

motley.”


“They are welcome,” said Locksley; “our laws bind none but

ourselves.”


“But, thou, my poor knave,” said Cedric, turning about and

embracing his Jester, “how shall I reward thee, who feared not to give

thy body to chains and death instead of mine!—All forsook me, when the

poor fool was faithful!”


A tear stood in the eye of the rough Thane as he spoke—a mark of feeling

which even the death of Athelstane had not extracted; but there was something

in the half-instinctive attachment of his clown, that waked his nature more

keenly than even grief itself.


“Nay,” said the Jester, extricating himself from master’s

caress, “if you pay my service with the water of your eye, the Jester

must weep for company, and then what becomes of his vocation?—But, uncle,

if you would indeed pleasure me, I pray you to pardon my playfellow Gurth, who

stole a week from your service to bestow it on your son.”


“Pardon him!” exclaimed Cedric; “I will both pardon and

reward him.—Kneel down, Gurth.”—The swineherd was in an

instant at his master’s feet—“THEOW and ESNE 40 art thou no longer,” said

Cedric touching him with a wand; “FOLKFREE and SACLESS 41 art thou in town and from town, in

the forest as in the field. A hide of land I give to thee in my steads of

Walbrugham, from me and mine to thee and thine aye and for ever; and

God’s malison on his head who this gainsays!”


No longer a serf, but a freeman and a landholder, Gurth sprung upon his feet,

and twice bounded aloft to almost his own height from the ground. “A

smith and a file,” he cried, “to do away the collar from the neck

of a freeman!—Noble master! doubled is my strength by your gift, and

doubly will I fight for you!—There is a free spirit in my breast—I

am a man changed to myself and all around.—Ha, Fangs!” he

continued,—for that faithful cur, seeing his master thus transported,

began to jump upon him, to express his sympathy,—“knowest thou thy

master still?”


“Ay,” said Wamba, “Fangs and I still know thee, Gurth, though

we must needs abide by the collar; it is only thou art likely to forget both us

and thyself.”


“I shall forget myself indeed ere I forget thee, true comrade,”

said Gurth; “and were freedom fit for thee, Wamba, the master would not

let thee want it.”


“Nay,” said Wamba, “never think I envy thee, brother Gurth;

the serf sits by the hall-fire when the freeman must forth to the field of

battle—And what saith Oldhelm of Malmsbury—Better a fool at a feast

than a wise man at a fray.”


The tramp of horses was now heard, and the Lady Rowena appeared, surrounded by

several riders, and a much stronger party of footmen, who joyfully shook their

pikes and clashed their brown-bills for joy of her freedom. She herself, richly

attired, and mounted on a dark chestnut palfrey, had recovered all the dignity

of her manner, and only an unwonted degree of paleness showed the sufferings

she had undergone. Her lovely brow, though sorrowful, bore on it a cast of

reviving hope for the future, as well as of grateful thankfulness for the past

deliverance—She knew that Ivanhoe was safe, and she knew that Athelstane

was dead. The former assurance filled her with the most sincere delight; and if

she did not absolutely rejoice at the latter, she might be pardoned for feeling

the full advantage of being freed from further persecution on the only subject

in which she had ever been contradicted by her guardian Cedric.


As Rowena bent her steed towards Locksley’s seat, that bold yeoman, with

all his followers, rose to receive her, as if by a general instinct of

courtesy. The blood rose to her cheeks, as, courteously waving her hand, and

bending so low that her beautiful and loose tresses were for an instant mixed

with the flowing mane of her palfrey, she expressed in few but apt words her

obligations and her gratitude to Locksley and her other

deliverers.—“God bless you, brave men,” she concluded,

“God and Our Lady bless you and requite you for gallantly perilling

yourselves in the cause of the oppressed!—If any of you should hunger,

remember Rowena has food—if you should thirst, she has many a butt of

wine and brown ale—and if the Normans drive ye from these walks, Rowena

has forests of her own, where her gallant deliverers may range at full freedom,

and never ranger ask whose arrow hath struck down the deer.”


“Thanks, gentle lady,” said Locksley; “thanks from my company

and myself. But, to have saved you requites itself. We who walk the greenwood

do many a wild deed, and the Lady Rowena’s deliverance may be received as

an atonement.”


Again bowing from her palfrey, Rowena turned to depart; but pausing a moment,

while Cedric, who was to attend her, was also taking his leave, she found

herself unexpectedly close by the prisoner De Bracy. He stood under a tree in

deep meditation, his arms crossed upon his breast, and Rowena was in hopes she

might pass him unobserved. He looked up, however, and, when aware of her

presence, a deep flush of shame suffused his handsome countenance. He stood a

moment most irresolute; then, stepping forward, took her palfrey by the rein,

and bent his knee before her.


“Will the Lady Rowena deign to cast an eye—on a captive

knight—on a dishonoured soldier?”


“Sir Knight,” answered Rowena, “in enterprises such as yours,

the real dishonour lies not in failure, but in success.”


“Conquest, lady, should soften the heart,” answered De Bracy;

“let me but know that the Lady Rowena forgives the violence occasioned by

an ill-fated passion, and she shall soon learn that De Bracy knows how to serve

her in nobler ways.”


“I forgive you, Sir Knight,” said Rowena, “as a

Christian.”


“That means,” said Wamba, “that she does not forgive him at

all.”


“But I can never forgive the misery and desolation your madness has

occasioned,” continued Rowena.


“Unloose your hold on the lady’s rein,” said Cedric, coming

up. “By the bright sun above us, but it were shame, I would pin thee to

the earth with my javelin—but be well assured, thou shalt smart, Maurice

de Bracy, for thy share in this foul deed.”


“He threatens safely who threatens a prisoner,” said De Bracy;

“but when had a Saxon any touch of courtesy?”


Then retiring two steps backward, he permitted the lady to move on.


Cedric, ere they departed, expressed his peculiar gratitude to the Black

Champion, and earnestly entreated him to accompany him to Rotherwood.


“I know,” he said, “that ye errant knights desire to carry

your fortunes on the point of your lance, and reck not of land or goods; but

war is a changeful mistress, and a home is sometimes

e to a mountain

torrent which he was sure that he had never seen before. Convinced that he had

taken the wrong turn, he tried another, but with the same result. Night was

coming on rapidly, and it was almost dark before he at last found himself in a

defile which was familiar to him. Even then it was no easy matter to keep to

the right track, for the moon had not yet risen, and the high cliffs on either

side made the obscurity more profound. Weighed down with his burden, and weary

from his exertions, he stumbled along, keeping up his heart by the reflection

that every step brought him nearer to Lucy, and that he carried with him enough

to ensure them food for the remainder of their journey.


He had now come to the mouth of the very defile in which he had left them. Even

in the darkness he could recognize the outline of the cliffs which bounded it.

They must, he reflected, be awaiting him anxiously, for he had been absent

nearly five hours. In the gladness of his heart he put his hands to his mouth

and made the glen re-echo to a loud halloo as a signal that he was coming. He

paused and listened for an answer. None came save his own cry, which clattered

up the dreary silent ravines, and was borne back to his ears in countless

repetitions. Again he shouted, even louder than before, and again no whisper

came back from the friends whom he had left such a short time ago. A vague,

nameless dread came over him, and he hurried onwards frantically, dropping the

precious food in his agitation.


When he turned the corner, he came full in sight of the spot where the fire had

been lit. There was still a glowing pile of wood ashes there, but it had

evidently not been tended since his departure. The same dead silence still

reigned all round. With his fears all changed to convictions, he hurried on.

There was no living creature near the remains of the fire: animals, man,

maiden, all were gone. It was only too clear that some sudden and terrible

disaster had occurred during his absence—a disaster which had embraced

them all, and yet had left no traces behind it.


Bewildered and stunned by this blow, Jefferson Hope felt his head spin round,

and had to lean upon his rifle to save himself from falling. He was essentially

a man of action, however, and speedily recovered from his temporary impotence.

Seizing a half-consumed piece of wood from the smouldering fire, he blew it

into a flame, and proceeded with its help to examine the little camp. The

ground was all stamped down by the feet of horses, showing that a large party

of mounted men had overtaken the fugitives, and the direction of their tracks

proved that they had afterwards turned back to Salt Lake City. Had they carried

back both of his companions with them? Jefferson Hope had almost persuaded

himself that they must have done so, when his eye fell upon an object which

made every nerve of his body tingle within him. A little way on one side of the

camp was a low-lying heap of reddish soil, which had assuredly not been there

before. There was no mistaking it for anything but a newly-dug grave. As the

young hunter approached it, he perceived that a stick had been planted on it,

with a sheet of paper stuck in the cleft fork of it. The inscription upon the

paper was brief, but to the point:


JOHN FERRIER,

FORMERLY OF SALT LAKE

CITY,

Died August 4th, 1860.


The sturdy old man, whom he had left so short a time before, was gone, then,

and this was all his epitaph. Jefferson Hope looked wildly round to see if

there was a second grave, but there was no sign of one. Lucy had been carried

back by their terrible pursuers to fulfil her original destiny, by becoming one

of the harem of the Elder’s son. As the young fellow realized the certainty of

her fate, and his own powerlessness to prevent it, he wished that he, too, was

lying with the old farmer in his last silent resting-place.


Again, however, his active spirit shook off the lethargy which springs from

despair. If there was nothing else left to him, he could at least devote his

life to revenge. With indomitable patience and perseverance, Jefferson Hope

possessed also a power of sustained vindictiveness, which he may have learned

from the Indians amongst whom he had lived. As he stood by the desolate fire,

he felt that the only one thing which could assuage his grief would be thorough

and complete retribution, brought by his own hand upon his enemies. His strong

will and untiring energy should, he determined, be devoted to that one end.

With a grim, white face, he retraced his steps to where he had dropped the

food, and having stirred up the smouldering fire, he cooked enough to last him

for a few days. This he made up into a bundle, and, tired as he was, he set

himself to walk back through the mountains upon the track of the avenging

angels.


For five days he toiled footsore and weary through the defiles which he had

already traversed on horseback. At night he flung himself down among the rocks,

and snatched a few hours of sleep; but before daybreak he was always well on

his way. On the sixth day, he reached the Eagle Cañon, from which they had

commenced their ill-fated flight. Thence he could look down upon the home of

the saints. Worn and exhausted, he leaned upon his rifle and shook his gaunt

hand fiercely at the silent widespread city beneath him. As he looked at it, he

observed that there were flags in some of the principal streets, and other

signs of festivity. He was still speculating as to what this might mean when he

heard the clatter of horse’s hoofs, and saw a mounted man riding towards him.

As he approached, he recognized him as a Mormon named Cowper, to whom he had

rendered services at different times. He therefore accosted him when he got up

to him, with the object of finding out what Lucy Ferrier’s fate had been.


“I am Jefferson Hope,” he said. “You remember me.”


The Mormon looked at him with undisguised astonishment—indeed, it was

difficult to recognize in this tattered, unkempt wanderer, with ghastly white

face and fierce, wild eyes, the spruce young hunter of former days. Having,

however, at last, satisfied himself as to his identity, the man’s surprise

changed to consternation.


“You are mad to come here,” he cried. “It is as much as my own life is worth to

be seen talking with you. There is a warrant against you from the Holy Four for

assisting the Ferriers away.”


“I don’t fear them, or their warrant,” Hope said, earnestly. “You must know

something of this matter, Cowper. I conjure you by everything you hold dear to

answer a few questions. We have always been friends. For God’s sake, don’t

refuse to answer me.”


“What is it?” the Mormon asked uneasily. “Be quick. The very rocks have ears

and the trees eyes.”


“What has become of Lucy Ferrier?”


“She was married yesterday to young Drebber. Hold up, man, hold up, you have no

life left in you.”


“Don’t mind me,” said Hope faintly. He was white to the very lips, and had sunk

down on the stone against which he had been leaning. “Married, you say?”


“Married yesterday—that’s what those flags are for on the Endowment

House. There was some words between young Drebber and young Stangerson as to

which was to have her. They’d both been in the party that followed them, and

Stangerson had shot her father, which seemed to give him the best claim; but

when they argued it out in council, Drebber’s party was the stronger, so the

Prophet gave her over to him. No one won’t have her very long though, for I saw

death in her face yesterday. She is more like a ghost than a woman. Are you

off, then?”


“Yes, I am off,” said Jefferson Hope, who had risen from his seat. His face

might have been chiselled out of marble, so hard and set was its expression,

while its eyes glowed with a baleful light.


“Where are you going?”


“Never mind,” he answered; and, slinging his weapon over his shoulder, strode

off down the gorge and so away into the heart of the mountains to the haunts of

the wild beasts. Amongst them all there was none so fierce and so dangerous as

himself.


The prediction of the Mormon was only too well fulfilled. Whether it was the

terrible death of her father or the effects of the hateful marriage into which

she had been forced, poor Lucy never held up her head again, but pined away and

died within a month. Her sottish husband, who had married her principally for

the sake of John Ferrier’s property, did not affect any great grief at his

bereavement; but his other wives mourned over her, and sat up with her the

night before the burial, as is the Mormon custom. They were grouped round the

bier in the early hours of the morning, when, to their inexpressible fear and

astonishment, the door was flung open, and a savage-looking, weather-beaten man

in tattered garments strode into the room. Without a glance or a word to the

cowering women, he walked up to the white silent figure which had once

contained the pure soul of Lucy Ferrier. Stooping over her, he pressed his lips

reverently to her cold forehead, and then, snatching up her hand, he took the

wedding-ring from her finger. “She shall not be buried in that,” he cried with

a fierce snarl, and before an alarm could be raised sprang down the stairs and

was gone. So strange and so brief was the episode, that the watchers might have

found it hard to believe it themselves or persuade other people of it, had it

not been for the undeniable fact that the circlet of gold which marked her as

having been a bride had disappeared.


For some months Jefferson Hope lingered among the mountains, leading a strange

wild life, and nursing in his heart the fierce desire for vengeance which

possessed him. Tales were told in the City of the weird figure which was seen

prowling about the suburbs, and which haunted the lonely mountain gorges. Once

a bullet whistled through Stangerson’s window and flattened itself upon the

wall within a foot of him. On another occasion, as Drebber passed under a cliff

a great boulder crashed down on him, and he only escaped a terrible death by

throwing himself upon his face. The two young Mormons were not long in

discovering the reason of these attempts upon their lives, and led repeated

expeditions into the mountains in the hope of capturing or killing their enemy,

but always without success. Then they adopted the precaution of never going out

alone or after nightfall, and of having their houses guarded. After a time they

were able to relax these measures, for nothing was either heard or seen of

their opponent, and they hoped that time had cooled his vindictiveness.


Far from doing so, it had, if anything, augmented it. The hunter’s mind was of

a hard, unyielding nature, and the predominant idea of revenge had taken such

complete possession of it that there was no room for any other emotion. He was,

however, above all things practical. He soon realized that even his iron

constitution could not stand the incessant strain which he was putting upon it.

Exposure and want of wholesome food were wearing him out. If he died like a dog

among the mountains, what was to become of his revenge then? And yet such a

death was sure to overtake him if he persisted. He felt that that was to play

his enemy’s game, so he reluctantly returned to the old Nevada mines, there to

recruit his health and to amass money enough to allow him to pursue his object

without privation.


His intention had been to be absent a year at the most, but a combination of

unforeseen circumstances prevented his leaving the mines for nearly five. At

the end of that time, however, his memory of his wrongs and his craving for

revenge were quite as keen as on that memorable night when he had stood by John

Ferrier’s grave. Disguised, and under an assumed name, he returned to Salt Lake

City, careless what became of his own life, as long as he obtained what he knew

to be justice. There he found evil tidings awaiting him. There had been a

schism among the Chosen People a few months before, some of the younger members

of the Church having rebelled against the authority of the Elders, and the

result had been the secession of a certain number of the malcontents, who had

left Utah and become Gentiles. Among these had been Drebber and Stangerson; and

no one knew whither they had gone. Rumour reported that Drebber had managed to

convert a large part of his property into money, and that he had departed a

wealthy man, while his companion, Stangerson, was comparatively poor. There was

no clue at all, however, as to their whereabouts.


Many a man, however vindictive, would have abandoned all thought of revenge in

the face of such a difficulty, but Jefferson Hope never faltered for a moment.

With the small competence he possessed, eked out by such employment as he could

pick up, he travelled from town to town through the United States in quest of

his enemies. Year passed into year, his black hair turned grizzled, but still

he wandered on, a human bloodhound, with his mind wholly set upon the one

object upon which he had devoted his life. At last his perseverance was

rewarded. It was but a glance of a face in a window, but that one glance told

him that Cleveland in Ohio possessed the men whom he was in pursuit of. He

returned to his miserable lodgings with his plan of vengeance all arranged. It

chanced, however, that Drebber, looking from his window, had recognized the

vagrant in the street, and had read murder in his eyes. He hurried before a

justice of the peace, accompanied by Stangerson, who had become his private

secretary, and represented to him that they were in danger of their lives from

the jealousy and hatred of an old rival. That evening Jefferson Hope was taken

into custody, and not being able to find sureties, was detained for some weeks.

When at last he was liberated, it was only to find that Drebber’s house was

deserted, and that he and his secretary had departed for Europe.


Again the avenger had been foiled, and again his concentrated hatred urged him

to continue the pursuit. Funds were wanting, however, and for some time he had

to return to work, saving every dollar for his approaching journey. At last,

having collected enough to keep life in him, he departed for Europe, and

tracked his enemies from city to city, working his way in any menial capacity,

but never overtaking the fugitives. When he reached St. Petersburg they had

departed for Paris; and when he followed them there he learned that they had

just set off for Copenhagen. At the Danish capital he was again a few days

late, for they had journeyed on to London, where he at last succeeded in

running them to earth. As to what occurred there, we cannot do better than

quote the old hunter’s own account, as duly recorded in Dr. Watson’s Journal,

to which we are already under such obligations.


CHAPTER VI.

A CONTINUATION OF THE REMINISCENCES OF JOHN WATSON, M.D.


Our prisoner’s furious resistance did not apparently indicate any ferocity in

his disposition towards ourselves, for on finding himself powerless, he smiled

in an affable manner, and expressed his hopes that he had not hurt any of us in

the scuffle. “I guess you’re going to take me to the police-station,” he

remarked to Sherlock Holmes. “My cab’s at the door. If you’ll loose my legs

I’ll walk down to it. I’m not so light to lift as I used to be.”


Gregson and Lestrade exchanged glances as if they thought this proposition

rather a bold one; but Holmes at once took the prisoner at his word, and

loosened the towel which we had bound round his ankles. He rose and stretched

his legs, as though to assure himself that they were free once more. I remember

that I thought to myself, as I eyed him, that I had seldom seen a more

powerfully built man; and his dark sunburned face bore an expression of

determination and energy which was as formidable as his personal strength.


“If there’s a vacant place for a chief of the police, I reckon you are the man

for it,” he said, gazing with undisguised admiration at my fellow-lodger. “The

way you kept on my trail was a caution.”


“You had better come with me,” said Holmes to the two detectives.


“I can drive you,” said Lestrade.


“Good! and Gregson can come inside with me. You too, Doctor, you have taken an

interest in the case and may as well stick to us.”


I assented gladly, and we all descended together. Our prisoner made no attempt

at escape, but stepped calmly into the cab which had been his, and we followed

him. Lestrade mounted the box, whipped up the horse, and brought us in a very

short time to our destination. We were ushered into a small chamber where a

police Inspector noted down our prisoner’s name and the names of the men with

whose murder he had been charged. The official was a white-faced unemotional

man, who went through his duties in a dull mechanical way. “The prisoner will

be put before the magistrates in the course of the week,” he said; “in the mean

time, Mr. Jefferson Hope, have you anything that you wish to say? I must warn

you that your words will be taken down, and may be used against you.”


“I’ve got a good deal to say,” our prisoner said slowly. “I want to tell you

gentlemen all about it.”


“Hadn’t you better reserve that for your trial?” asked the Inspector.


“I may never be tried,” he answered. “You needn’t look startled. It isn’t

suicide I am thinking of. Are you a Doctor?” He turned his fierce dark eyes

upon me as he asked this last question.


“Yes; I am,” I answered.


“Then put your hand here,” he said, with a smile, motioning with his manacled

wrists towards his chest.


I did so; and became at once conscious of an extraordinary throbbing and

commotion which was going on inside. The walls of his chest seemed to thrill

and quiver as a frail building would do inside when some powerful engine was at

work. In the silence of the room I could hear a dull humming and buzzing noise

which proceeded from the same source.


“Why,” I cried, “you have an aortic aneurism!”


“That’s what they call it,” he said, placidly. “I went to a Doctor last week

about it, and he told me that it is bound to burst before many days passed. It

has been getting worse for years. I got it from over-exposure and under-feeding

among the Salt Lake Mountains. I’ve done my work now, and I don’t care how soon

I go, but I should like to leave some account of the business behind me. I

don’t want to be remembered as a common cut-throat.”


The Inspector and the two detectives had a hurried discussion as to the

advisability of allowing him to tell his story.


“Do you consider, Doctor, that there is immediate danger?” the former asked.


“Most certainly there is,” I answered.


“In that case it is clearly our duty, in the interests of justice, to take his

statement,” said the Inspector. “You are at liberty, sir, to give your account,

which I again warn you will be taken down.”


“I’ll sit down, with your leave,” the prisoner said, suiting the action to the

word. “This aneurism of mine makes me easily tired, and the tussle we had half

an hour ago has not mended matters. I’m on the brink of the grave, and I am not

likely to lie to you. Every word I say is the absolute truth, and how you use

it is a matter of n

ng but groan.


He served out some grog with a liberal hand,

    And bade them sit down on the beach:

And they could not but own that their Captain looked grand,

    As he stood and delivered his speech.


“Friends, Romans, and countrymen, lend me your ears!”

     (They were all of them fond of quotations:

So they drank to his health, and they gave him three cheers,

    While he served out additional rations).


“We have sailed many months, we have sailed many weeks,

    (Four weeks to the month you may mark),

But never as yet (’tis your Captain who speaks)

    Have we caught the least glimpse of a Snark!


“We have sailed many weeks, we have sailed many days,

    (Seven days to the week I allow),

But a Snark, on the which we might lovingly gaze,

    We have never beheld till now!


“Come, listen, my men, while I tell you again

    The five unmistakable marks

By which you may know, wheresoever you go,

    The warranted genuine Snarks.


“Let us take them in order. The first is the taste,

    Which is meagre and hollow, but crisp:

Like a coat that is rather too tight in the waist,

    With a flavour of Will-o’-the-wisp.


“Its habit of getting up late you’ll agree

    That it carries too far, when I say

That it frequently breakfasts at five-o’clock tea,

    And dines on the following day.


“The third is its slowness in taking a jest.

    Should you happen to venture on one,

It will sigh like a thing that is deeply distressed:

    And it always looks grave at a pun.


“The fourth is its fondness for bathing-machines,

    Which is constantly carries about,

And believes that they add to the beauty of scenes—

    A sentiment open to doubt.


“The fifth is ambition. It next will be right

    To describe each particular batch:

Distinguishing those that have feathers, and bite,

    And those that have whiskers, and scratch.


“For, although common Snarks do no manner of harm,

    Yet, I feel it my duty to say,

Some are Boojums—” The Bellman broke off in alarm,

    For the Baker had fainted away.


Fit the Third

THE BAKER’S TALE


They roused him with muffins—they roused him with ice—

    They roused him with mustard and cress—

They roused him with jam and judicious advice—

    They set him conundrums to guess.


When at length he sat up and was able to speak,

    His sad story he offered to tell;

And the Bellman cried “Silence! Not even a shriek!”

     And excitedly tingled his bell.


There was silence supreme! Not a shriek, not a scream,

    Scarcely even a howl or a groan,

As the man they called “Ho!” told his story of woe

    In an antediluvian tone.


“My father and mother were honest, though poor—”

     “Skip all that!” cried the Bellman in haste.

“If it once becomes dark, there’s no chance of a Snark—

    We have hardly a minute to waste!”


“I skip forty years,” said the Baker, in tears,

    “And proceed without further remark

To the day when you took me aboard of your ship

    To help you in hunting the Snark.


“A dear uncle of mine (after whom I was named)

    Remarked, when I bade him farewell—”

 “Oh, skip your dear uncle!” the Bellman exclaimed,

    As he angrily tingled his bell.


“He remarked to me then,” said that mildest of men,

    “‘If your Snark be a Snark, that is right:

Fetch it home by all means—you may serve it with greens,

    And it’s handy for striking a light.


“‘You may seek it with thimbles—and seek it with care;

    You may hunt it with forks and hope;

You may threaten its life with a railway-share;

    You may charm it with smiles and soap—’”


(“That’s exactly the method,” the Bellman bold

    In a hasty parenthesis cried,

“That’s exactly the way I have always been told

    That the capture of Snarks should be tried!”)


“‘But oh, beamish nephew, beware of the day,

    If your Snark be a Boojum! For then

You will softly and suddenly vanish away,

    And never be met with again!’


“It is this, it is this that oppresses my soul,

    When I think of my uncle’s last words:

And my heart is like nothing so much as a bowl

    Brimming over with quivering curds!


“It is this, it is this—” “We have had that before!”

     The Bellman indignantly said.

And the Baker replied “Let me say it once more.

    It is this, it is this that I dread!


“I engage with the Snark—every night after dark—

    In a dreamy delirious fight:

I serve it with greens in those shadowy scenes,

    And I use it for striking a light:


“But if ever I meet with a Boojum, that day,

    In a moment (of this I am sure),

I shall softly and suddenly vanish away—

    And the notion I cannot endure!”


Fit the fourth

THE HUNTING


The Bellman looked uffish, and wrinkled his brow.

    “If only you’d spoken before!

It’s excessively awkward to mention it now,

    With the Snark, so to speak, at the door!


“We should all of us grieve, as you well may believe,

    If you never were met with again—

But surely, my man, when the voyage began,

    You might have suggested it then?


“It’s excessively awkward to mention it now—

    As I think I’ve already remarked.”

 And the man they called “Hi!” replied, with a sigh,

    “I informed you the day we embarked.


“You may charge me with murder—or want of sense—

    (We are all of us weak at times):

But the slightest approach to a false pretence

    Was never among my crimes!


“I said it in Hebrew—I said it in Dutch—

    I said it in German and Greek:

But I wholly forgot (and it vexes me much)

    That English is what you speak!”


“’Tis a pitiful tale,” said the Bellman, whose face

    Had grown longer at every word:

“But, now that you’ve stated the whole of your case,

    More debate would be simply absurd.


“The rest of my speech” (he explained to his men)

    “You shall hear when I’ve leisure to speak it.

But the Snark is at hand, let me tell you again!

    ’Tis your glorious duty to seek it!


“To seek it with thimbles, to seek it with care;

    To pursue it with forks and hope;

To threaten its life with a railway-share;

    To charm it with smiles and soap!


“For the Snark’s a peculiar creature, that won’t

    Be caught in a commonplace way.

Do all that you know, and try all that you don’t:

    Not a chance must be wasted to-day!


“For England expects—I forbear to proceed:

    ’Tis a maxim tremendous, but trite:

And you’d best be unpacking the things that you need

    To rig yourselves out for the fight.”


Then the Banker endorsed a blank cheque (which he crossed),

    And changed his loose silver for notes.

The Baker with care combed his whiskers and hair,

    And shook the dust out of his coats.


The Boots and the Broker were sharpening a spade—

    Each working the grindstone in turn:

But the Beaver went on making lace, and displayed

    No interest in the concern:


Though the Barrister tried to appeal to its pride,

    And vainly proceeded to cite

A number of cases, in which making laces

    Had been proved an infringement of right.


The maker of Bonnets ferociously planned

    A novel arrangement of bows:

While the Billiard-marker with quivering hand

    Was chalking the tip of his nose.


But the Butcher turned nervous, and dressed himself fine,

    With yellow kid gloves and a ruff—

Said he felt it exactly like going to dine,

    Which the Bellman declared was all “stuff.”


“Introduce me, now there’s a good fellow,” he said,

    “If we happen to meet it together!”

 And the Bellman, sagaciously nodding his head,

    Said “That must depend on the weather.”


The Beaver went simply galumphing about,

    At seeing the Butcher so shy:

And even the Baker, though stupid and stout,

    Made an effort to wink with one eye.


“Be a man!” said the Bellman in wrath, as he heard

    The Butcher beginning to sob.

“Should we meet with a Jubjub, that desperate bird,

    We shall need all our strength for the job!”


Fit the Fifth

THE BEAVER’S LESSON


They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;

    They pursued it with forks and hope;

They threatened its life with a railway-share;

    They charmed it with smiles and soap.


Then the Butcher contrived an ingenious plan

    For making a separate sally;

And had fixed on a spot unfrequented by man,

    A dismal and desolate valley.


But the very same plan to the Beaver occurred:

    It had chosen the very same place:

Yet neither betrayed, by a sign or a word,

    The disgust that appeared in his face.


Each thought he was thinking of nothing but “Snark”

     And the glorious work of the day;

And each tried to pretend that he did not remark

    That the other was going that way.


But the valley grew narrow and narrower still,

    And the evening got darker and colder,

Till (merely from nervousness, not from goodwill)

    They marched along shoulder to shoulder.


Then a scream, shrill and high, rent the shuddering sky,

    And they knew that some danger was near:

The Beaver turned pale to the tip of its tail,

    And even the Butcher felt queer.


He thought of his childhood, left far far behind—

    That blissful and innocent state—

The sound so exactly recalled to his mind

    A pencil that squeaks on a slate!


“’Tis the voice of the Jubjub!” he suddenly cried.

    (This man, that they used to call “Dunce.”)

“As the Bellman would tell you,” he added with pride,

    “I have uttered that sentiment once.


“’Tis the note of the Jubjub! Keep count, I entreat;

    You will find I have told it you twice.

’Tis the song of the Jubjub! The proof is complete,

    If only I’ve stated it thrice.”


The Beaver had counted with scrupulous care,

    Attending to every word:

But it fairly lost heart, and outgrabe in despair,

    When the third repetition occurred.


It felt that, in spite of all possible pains,

    It had somehow contrived to lose count,

And the only thing now was to rack its poor brains

    By reckoning up the amount.


“Two added to one—if that could but be done,”

     It said, “with one’s fingers and thumbs!”

 Recollecting with tears how, in earlier years,

    It had taken no pains with its sums.


“The thing can be done,” said the Butcher, “I think.

    The thing must be done, I am sure.

The thing shall be done! Bring me paper and ink,

    The best there is time to procure.”


The Beaver brought paper, portfolio, pens,

    And ink in unfailing supplies:

While strange creepy creatures came out of their dens,

    And watched them with wondering eyes.


So engrossed was the Butcher, he heeded them not,

    As he wrote with a pen in each hand,

And explained all the while in a popular style

    Which the Beaver could well understand.


“Taking Three as the subject to reason about—

    A convenient number to state—

We add Seven, and Ten, and then multiply out

    By One Thousand diminished by Eight.


“The result we proceed to divide, as you see,

    By Nine Hundred and Ninety Two:

Then subtract Seventeen, and the answer must be

    Exactly and perfectly true.


“The method employed I would gladly explain,

    While I have it so clear in my head,

If I had but the time and you had but the brain—

    But much yet remains to be said.


“In one moment I’ve seen what has hitherto been

    Enveloped in absolute mystery,

And without extra charge I will give you at large

    A Lesson in Natural History.”


In his genial way he proceeded to say

    (Forgetting all laws of propriety,

And that giving instruction, without introduction,

    Would have caused quite a thrill in Society),


“As to temper the Jubjub’s a desperate bird,

    Since it lives in perpetual passion:

Its taste in costume is entirely absurd—

    It is ages ahead of the fashion:


“But it knows any friend it has met once before:

    It never will look at a bribe:

And in charity-meetings it stands at the door,

    And collects—though it does not subscribe.


“Its’ flavour when cooked is more exquisite far

    Than mutton, or oysters, or eggs:

(Some think it keeps best in an ivory jar,

    And some, in mahogany kegs:)


“You boil it in sawdust: you salt it in glue:

    You condense it with locusts and tape:

Still keeping one principal object in view—

    To preserve its symmetrical shape.”


The Butcher would gladly have talked till next day,

    But he felt that the lesson must end,

And he wept with delight in attempting to say

    He considered the Beaver his friend.


While the Beaver confessed, with affectionate looks

    More eloquent even than tears,

It had learned in ten minutes far more than all books

    Would have taught it in seventy years.


They returned hand-in-hand, and the Bellman, unmanned

    (For a moment) with noble emotion,

Said “This amply repays all the wearisome days

    We have spent on the billowy ocean!”


Such friends, as the Beaver and Butcher became,

    Have seldom if ever been known;

In winter or summer, ’twas always the same—

    You could never meet either alone.


And when quarrels arose—as one frequently finds

    Quarrels will, spite of every endeavour—

The song of the Jubjub recurred to their minds,

    And cemented their friendship for ever!


Fit the Sixth

THE BARRISTER’S DREAM


They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;

    They pursued it with forks and hope;

They threatened its life with a railway-share;

    They charmed it with smiles and soap.


But the Barrister, weary of proving in vain

    That the Beaver’s lace-making was wrong,

Fell asleep, and in dreams saw the creature quite plain

    That his fancy had dwelt on so long.


He dreamed that he stood in a shadowy Court,

    Where the Snark, with a glass in its eye,

Dressed in gown, bands, and wig, was defending a pig

    On the charge of deserting its sty.


The Witnesses proved, without error or flaw,

    That the sty was deserted when found:

And the Judge kept explaining the state of the law

    In a soft under-current of sound.


The indictment had never been clearly expressed,

    And it seemed that the Snark had begun,

And had spoken three hours, before any one guessed

    What the pig was supposed to have done.


The Jury had each formed a different view

    (Long before the indictment was read),

And they all spoke at once, so that none of them knew

    One word that the others had said.


“You must know—” said the Judge: but the Snark exclaimed “Fudge!”

     That statute is obsolete quite!

Let me tell you, my friends, the whole question depends

    On an ancient manorial right.


“In the matter of Treason the pig would appear

    To have aided, but scarcely abetted:

While the charge of Insolvency fails, it is clear,

    If you grant the plea ‘never indebted.’


“The fact of Desertion I will not dispute;

    But its guilt, as I trust, is removed

(So far as related to the costs of this suit)

    By the Alibi which has been proved.


“My poor client’s fate now depends on your votes.”

     Here the speaker sat down in his place,

And directed the Judge to refer to his notes

    And briefly to sum up the case.


But the Judge said he never had summed up before;

    So the Snark undertook it instead,

And summed it so well that it came to far more

    Than the Witnesses ever had said!


When the verdict was called for, the Jury declined,

    As the word was so puzzling to spell;

But they ventured to hope that the Snark wouldn’t mind

    Undertaking that duty as well.


So the Snark found the verdict, although, as it owned,

    It was spent with the toils of the day:

When it said the word “GUILTY!” the Jury all groaned,

    And some of them fainted away.


Then the Snark pronounced sentence, the Judge being quite

    Too nervous to utter a word:

When it rose to its feet, there was silence like night,

    And the fall of a pin might be heard.


“Transportation for life” was the sentence it gave,

    “And then to be fined forty pound.”

 The Jury all cheered, though the Judge said he feared

    That the phrase was not legally sound.


But their wild exultation was suddenly checked

    When the jailer informed them, with tears,

Such a sentence would have not the slightest effect,

    As the pig had been dead for some years.


The Judge left the Court, looking deeply disgusted:

    But the Snark, though a little aghast,

As the lawyer to whom the defense was entrusted,

    Went bellowing on to the last.


Thus the Barrister dreamed, while the bellowing seemed

    To grow every moment more clear:

Till he woke to the knell of a furious bell,

    Which the Bellman rang close at his ear.


Fit the Seventh

THE BANKER’S FATE


They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;

    They pursued it with forks and hope;

They threatened its life with a railway-share;

    They charmed it with smiles and soap.


And the Banker, inspired with a courage so new

    It was matter for general remark,

Rushed madly ahead and was lost to their view

    In his zeal to discover the Snark


But while he was seeking with thimbles and care,

    A Bandersnatch swiftly drew nigh

And grabbed at the Banker, who shrieked in despair,

    For he knew it was useless to fly.


He offered large discount—he offered a cheque

    (Drawn “to bearer”) for seven-pounds-ten:

But the Bandersnatch merely extended its neck

    And grabbed at the Banker again.


Without rest or pause—while those frumious jaws

    Went savagely snapping around—

He skipped and he hopped, and he floundered and flopped,

    Till fainting he fell to the ground.


The Bandersnatch fled as the others appeared

    Led on by that fear-stricken yell:

And the Bellman remarked “It is just as I feared!”

     And solemnly tolled on his bell.


He was black in the face, and they scarcely could trace

    The least likeness to what he had been:

While so great was his fright that his waistcoat turned white—

    A wonderful thing to be seen!


To the horror of all who were present that day.

    He uprose in full evening dress,

And with senseless grimaces endeavoured to say

    What his tongue could no longer express.


Down he sank in a chair—ran his hands through his hair—

    And chanted in mimsiest tones

Words whose utter inanity proved his insanity,

    While he rattled a couple of bones.


“Leave him here to his fate—it is getting so late!”

     The Bellman exclaimed in a fright.

“We have lost half the day. Any further delay,

    And we sha’n’t catch a Snark before night!”


Fit the Eighth

THE VANISHING


They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;

    They pursued it with forks and hope;

They threatened its life with a railway-share;

    They charmed it with smiles and soap.


They shuddered to think that the chase might fail,

    And the Beaver, excited at last,

Went bounding along on the tip of its tail,

    For the daylight was nearly past.


“There is Thingumbob shouting!” the Bellman said,

    “He is shouting like mad, only hark!

He is waving his hands, he is wagging his he

sunk

his mighty fangs far into the breast of his adversary; but the great arms and

paws of the ape, backed by muscles far transcending those of the Martian men I

had seen, had locked the throat of my guardian and slowly were choking out his

life, and bending back his head and neck upon his body, where I momentarily

expected the former to fall limp at the end of a broken neck.


In accomplishing this the ape was tearing away the entire front of its breast,

which was held in the vise-like grip of the powerful jaws. Back and forth upon

the floor they rolled, neither one emitting a sound of fear or pain. Presently

I saw the great eyes of my beast bulging completely from their sockets and

blood flowing from its nostrils. That he was weakening perceptibly was evident,

but so also was the ape, whose struggles were growing momentarily less.


Suddenly I came to myself and, with that strange instinct which seems ever to

prompt me to my duty, I seized the cudgel, which had fallen to the floor at the

commencement of the battle, and swinging it with all the power of my earthly

arms I crashed it full upon the head of the ape, crushing his skull as though

it had been an eggshell.


Scarcely had the blow descended when I was confronted with a new danger. The

ape’s mate, recovered from its first shock of terror, had returned to the

scene of the encounter by way of the interior of the building. I glimpsed him

just before he reached the doorway and the sight of him, now roaring as he

perceived his lifeless fellow stretched upon the floor, and frothing at the

mouth, in the extremity of his rage, filled me, I must confess, with dire

forebodings.


I am ever willing to stand and fight when the odds are not too overwhelmingly

against me, but in this instance I perceived neither glory nor profit in

pitting my relatively puny strength against the iron muscles and brutal

ferocity of this enraged denizen of an unknown world; in fact, the only outcome

of such an encounter, so far as I might be concerned, seemed sudden death.


I was standing near the window and I knew that once in the street I might gain

the plaza and safety before the creature could overtake me; at least there was

a chance for safety in flight, against almost certain death should I remain and

fight however desperately.


It is true I held the cudgel, but what could I do with it against his four

great arms? Even should I break one of them with my first blow, for I figured

that he would attempt to ward off the cudgel, he could reach out and annihilate

me with the others before I could recover for a second attack.


In the instant that these thoughts passed through my mind I had turned to make

for the window, but my eyes alighting on the form of my erstwhile guardian

threw all thoughts of flight to the four winds. He lay gasping upon the floor

of the chamber, his great eyes fastened upon me in what seemed a pitiful appeal

for protection. I could not withstand that look, nor could I, on second

thought, have deserted my rescuer without giving as good an account of myself

in his behalf as he had in mine.


Without more ado, therefore, I turned to meet the charge of the infuriated bull

ape. He was now too close upon me for the cudgel to prove of any effective

assistance, so I merely threw it as heavily as I could at his advancing bulk.

It struck him just below the knees, eliciting a howl of pain and rage, and so

throwing him off his balance that he lunged full upon me with arms wide

stretched to ease his fall.


Again, as on the preceding day, I had recourse to earthly tactics, and swinging

my right fist full upon the point of his chin I followed it with a smashing

left to the pit of his stomach. The effect was marvelous, for, as I lightly

sidestepped, after delivering the second blow, he reeled and fell upon the

floor doubled up with pain and gasping for wind. Leaping over his prostrate

body, I seized the cudgel and finished the monster before he could regain his

feet.


As I delivered the blow a low laugh rang out behind me, and, turning, I beheld

Tars Tarkas, Sola, and three or four warriors standing in the doorway of the

chamber. As my eyes met theirs I was, for the second time, the recipient of

their zealously guarded applause.


My absence had been noted by Sola on her awakening, and she had quickly

informed Tars Tarkas, who had set out immediately with a handful of warriors to

search for me. As they had approached the limits of the city they had witnessed

the actions of the bull ape as he bolted into the building, frothing with rage.


They had followed immediately behind him, thinking it barely possible that his

actions might prove a clew to my whereabouts and had witnessed my short but

decisive battle with him. This encounter, together with my set-to with the

Martian warrior on the previous day and my feats of jumping placed me upon a

high pinnacle in their regard. Evidently devoid of all the finer sentiments of

friendship, love, or affection, these people fairly worship physical prowess

and bravery, and nothing is too good for the object of their adoration as long

as he maintains his position by repeated examples of his skill, strength, and

courage.


Sola, who had accompanied the searching party of her own volition, was the only

one of the Martians whose face had not been twisted in laughter as I battled

for my life. She, on the contrary, was sober with apparent solicitude and, as

soon as I had finished the monster, rushed to me and carefully examined my body

for possible wounds or injuries. Satisfying herself that I had come off

unscathed she smiled quietly, and, taking my hand, started toward the door of

the chamber.


Tars Tarkas and the other warriors had entered and were standing over the now

rapidly reviving brute which had saved my life, and whose life I, in turn, had

rescued. They seemed to be deep in argument, and finally one of them addressed

me, but remembering my ignorance of his language turned back to Tars Tarkas,

who, with a word and gesture, gave some command to the fellow and turned to

follow us from the room.


There seemed something menacing in their attitude toward my beast, and I

hesitated to leave until I had learned the outcome. It was well I did so, for

the warrior drew an evil looking pistol from its holster and was on the point

of putting an end to the creature when I sprang forward and struck up his arm.

The bullet striking the wooden casing of the window exploded, blowing a hole

completely through the wood and masonry.


I then knelt down beside the fearsome-looking thing, and raising it to its feet

motioned for it to follow me. The looks of surprise which my actions elicited

from the Martians were ludicrous; they could not understand, except in a feeble

and childish way, such attributes as gratitude and compassion. The warrior

whose gun I had struck up looked enquiringly at Tars Tarkas, but the latter

signed that I be left to my own devices, and so we returned to the plaza with

my great beast following close at heel, and Sola grasping me tightly by the

arm.


I had at least two friends on Mars; a young woman who watched over me with

motherly solicitude, and a dumb brute which, as I later came to know, held in

its poor ugly carcass more love, more loyalty, more gratitude than could have

been found in the entire five million green Martians who rove the deserted

cities and dead sea bottoms of Mars.


CHAPTER VII

CHILD-RAISING ON MARS


After a breakfast, which was an exact replica of the meal of the preceding day

and an index of practically every meal which followed while I was with the

green men of Mars, Sola escorted me to the plaza, where I found the entire

community engaged in watching or helping at the harnessing of huge mastodonian

animals to great three-wheeled chariots. There were about two hundred and fifty

of these vehicles, each drawn by a single animal, any one of which, from their

appearance, might easily have drawn the entire wagon train when fully loaded.


The chariots themselves were large, commodious, and gorgeously decorated. In

each was seated a female Martian loaded with ornaments of metal, with jewels

and silks and furs, and upon the back of each of the beasts which drew the

chariots was perched a young Martian driver. Like the animals upon which the

warriors were mounted, the heavier draft animals wore neither bit nor bridle,

but were guided entirely by telepathic means.


This power is wonderfully developed in all Martians, and accounts largely for

the simplicity of their language and the relatively few spoken words exchanged

even in long conversations. It is the universal language of Mars, through the

medium of which the higher and lower animals of this world of paradoxes are

able to communicate to a greater or less extent, depending upon the

intellectual sphere of the species and the development of the individual.


As the cavalcade took up the line of march in single file, Sola dragged me into

an empty chariot and we proceeded with the procession toward the point by which

I had entered the city the day before. At the head of the caravan rode some two

hundred warriors, five abreast, and a like number brought up the rear, while

twenty-five or thirty outriders flanked us on either side.


Every one but myself—men, women, and children—were heavily armed,

and at the tail of each chariot trotted a Martian hound, my own beast following

closely behind ours; in fact, the faithful creature never left me voluntarily

during the entire ten years I spent on Mars. Our way led out across the little

valley before the city, through the hills, and down into the dead sea bottom

which I had traversed on my journey from the incubator to the plaza. The

incubator, as it proved, was the terminal point of our journey this day, and,

as the entire cavalcade broke into a mad gallop as soon as we reached the level

expanse of sea bottom, we were soon within sight of our goal.


On reaching it the chariots were parked with military precision on the four

sides of the enclosure, and half a score of warriors, headed by the enormous

chieftain, and including Tars Tarkas and several other lesser chiefs,

dismounted and advanced toward it. I could see Tars Tarkas explaining something

to the principal chieftain, whose name, by the way, was, as nearly as I can

translate it into English, Lorquas Ptomel, Jed; jed being his title.


I was soon appraised of the subject of their conversation, as, calling to Sola,

Tars Tarkas signed for her to send me to him. I had by this time mastered the

intricacies of walking under Martian conditions, and quickly responding to his

command I advanced to the side of the incubator where the warriors stood.


As I reached their side a glance showed me that all but a very few eggs had

hatched, the incubator being fairly alive with the hideous little devils. They

ranged in height from three to four feet, and were moving restlessly about the

enclosure as though searching for food.


As I came to a halt before him, Tars Tarkas pointed over the incubator and

said, “Sak.” I saw that he wanted me to repeat my performance of

yesterday for the edification of Lorquas Ptomel, and, as I must confess that my

prowess gave me no little satisfaction, I responded quickly, leaping entirely

over the parked chariots on the far side of the incubator. As I returned,

Lorquas Ptomel grunted something at me, and turning to his warriors gave a few

words of command relative to the incubator. They paid no further attention to

me and I was thus permitted to remain close and watch their operations, which

consisted in breaking an opening in the wall of the incubator large enough to

permit of the exit of the young Martians.


On either side of this opening the women and the younger Martians, both male

and female, formed two solid walls leading out through the chariots and quite

away into the plain beyond. Between these walls the little Martians scampered,

wild as deer; being permitted to run the full length of the aisle, where they

were captured one at a time by the women and older children; the last in the

line capturing the first little one to reach the end of the gauntlet, her

opposite in the line capturing the second, and so on until all the little

fellows had left the enclosure and been appropriated by some youth or female.

As the women caught the young they fell out of line and returned to their

respective chariots, while those who fell into the hands of the young men were

later turned over to some of the women.


I saw that the ceremony, if it could be dignified by such a name, was over, and

seeking out Sola I found her in our chariot with a hideous little creature held

tightly in her arms.


The work of rearing young, green Martians consists solely in teaching them to

talk, and to use the weapons of warfare with which they are loaded down from

the very first year of their lives. Coming from eggs in which they have lain

for five years, the period of incubation, they step forth into the world

perfectly developed except in size. Entirely unknown to their mothers, who, in

turn, would have difficulty in pointing out the fathers with any degree of

accuracy, they are the common children of the community, and their education

devolves upon the females who chance to capture them as they leave the

incubator.


Their foster mothers may not even have had an egg in the incubator, as was the

case with Sola, who had not commenced to lay, until less than a year before she

became the mother of another woman’s offspring. But this counts for

little among the green Martians, as parental and filial love is as unknown to

them as it is common among us. I believe this horrible system which has been

carried on for ages is the direct cause of the loss of all the finer feelings

and higher humanitarian instincts among these poor creatures. From birth they

know no father or mother love, they know not the meaning of the word home; they

are taught that they are only suffered to live until they can demonstrate by

their physique and ferocity that they are fit to live. Should they prove

deformed or defective in any way they are promptly shot; nor do they see a tear

shed for a single one of the many cruel hardships they pass through from

earliest infancy.


I do not mean that the adult Martians are unnecessarily or intentionally cruel

to the young, but theirs is a hard and pitiless struggle for existence upon a

dying planet, the natural resources of which have dwindled to a point where the

support of each additional life means an added tax upon the community into

which it is thrown.


By careful selection they rear only the hardiest specimens of each species, and

with almost supernatural foresight they regulate the birth rate to merely

offset the loss by death.


Each adult Martian female brings forth about thirteen eggs each year, and those

which meet the size, weight, and specific gravity tests are hidden in the

recesses of some subterranean vault where the temperature is too low for

incubation. Every year these eggs are carefully examined by a council of twenty

chieftains, and all but about one hundred of the most perfect are destroyed out

of each yearly supply. At the end of five years about five hundred almost

perfect eggs have been chosen from the thousands brought forth. These are then

placed in the almost air-tight incubators to be hatched by the sun’s rays

after a period of another five years. The hatching which we had witnessed today

was a fairly representative event of its kind, all but about one per cent of

the eggs hatching in two days. If the remaining eggs ever hatched we knew

nothing of the fate of the little Martians. They were not wanted, as their

offspring might inherit and transmit the tendency to prolonged incubation, and

thus upset the system which has maintained for ages and which permits the adult

Martians to figure the proper time for return to the incubators, almost to an

hour.


The incubators are built in remote fastnesses, where there is little or no

likelihood of their being discovered by other tribes. The result of such a

catastrophe would mean no children in the community for another five years. I

was later to witness the results of the discovery of an alien incubator.


The community of which the green Martians with whom my lot was cast formed a

part was composed of some thirty thousand souls. They roamed an enormous tract

of arid and semi-arid land between forty and eighty degrees south latitude, and

bounded on the east and west by two large fertile tracts. Their headquarters

lay in the southwest corner of this district, near the crossing of two of the

so-called Martian canals.


As the incubator had been placed far north of their own territory in a

supposedly uninhabited and unfrequented area, we had before us a tremendous

journey, concerning which I, of course, knew nothing.


After our return to the dead city I passed several days in comparative

idleness. On the day following our return all the warriors had ridden forth

early in the morning and had not returned until just before darkness fell. As I

later learned, they had been to the subterranean vaults in which the eggs were

kept and had transported them to the incubator, which they had then walled up

for another five years, and which, in all probability, would not be visited

again during that period.


The vaults which hid the eggs until they were ready for the incubator were

located many miles south of the incubator, and would be visited yearly by the

council of twenty chieftains. Why they did not arrange to build their vaults

and incubators nearer home has always been a mystery to me, and, like many

other Martian mysteries, unsolved and unsolvable by earthly reasoning and

customs.


Sola’s duties were now doubled, as she was compelled to care for the

young Martian as well as for me, but neither one of us required much attention,

and as we were both about equally advanced in Martian education, Sola took it

upon herself to train us together.


Her prize consisted in a male about four feet tall, very strong and physically

perfect; also, he learned quickly, and we had considerable amusement, at least

I did, over the keen rivalry we displayed. The Martian language, as I have

said, is extremely simple, and in a week I could make all my wants known and

understand nearly everything that was said to me. Likewise, under Sola’s

tutelage, I developed my telepathic powers so that I shortly could sense

practically everything that went on around me.


What surprised Sola most in me was that while I could catch telepathic messages

easily from others, and often when they were not intended for me, no one could

read a jot from my mind under any circumstances. At first this vexed me, but

later I was very glad of it, as it gave me an undoubted advantage over the

Martians.


CHAPTER VIII

A FAIR CAPTIVE FROM THE SKY


The third day after the incubator ceremony we set forth toward home, but

scarcely had the head of the procession debouched into the open ground before

the city than orders were given for an immediate and hasty return. As though

trained for years in this particular evolution, the green Martians melted like


ing” his face with a wire rendered him safe from the eyes of

Bathsheba and her men. Nevertheless, he was relieved when it was got through.


There was a second performance in the evening, and the tent was lighted up.

Troy had taken his part very quietly this time, venturing to introduce a few

speeches on occasion; and was just concluding it when, whilst standing at the

edge of the circle contiguous to the first row of spectators, he observed

within a yard of him the eye of a man darted keenly into his side features.

Troy hastily shifted his position, after having recognized in the scrutineer

the knavish bailiff Pennyways, his wife’s sworn enemy, who still hung

about the outskirts of Weatherbury.


At first Troy resolved to take no notice and abide by circumstances. That he

had been recognized by this man was highly probable; yet there was room for a

doubt. Then the great objection he had felt to allowing news of his proximity

to precede him to Weatherbury in the event of his return, based on a feeling

that knowledge of his present occupation would discredit him still further in

his wife’s eyes, returned in full force. Moreover, should he resolve not

to return at all, a tale of his being alive and being in the neighbourhood

would be awkward; and he was anxious to acquire a knowledge of his wife’s

temporal affairs before deciding which to do.


In this dilemma Troy at once went out to reconnoitre. It occurred to him that

to find Pennyways, and make a friend of him if possible, would be a very wise

act. He had put on a thick beard borrowed from the establishment, and in this

he wandered about the fair-field. It was now almost dark, and respectable

people were getting their carts and gigs ready to go home.


The largest refreshment booth in the fair was provided by an innkeeper from a

neighbouring town. This was considered an unexceptionable place for obtaining

the necessary food and rest: Host Trencher (as he was jauntily called by the

local newspaper) being a substantial man of high repute for catering through

all the country round. The tent was divided into first and second-class

compartments, and at the end of the first-class division was a yet further

enclosure for the most exclusive, fenced off from the body of the tent by a

luncheon-bar, behind which the host himself stood bustling about in white apron

and shirt-sleeves, and looking as if he had never lived anywhere but under

canvas all his life. In these penetralia were chairs and a table, which, on

candles being lighted, made quite a cozy and luxurious show, with an urn,

plated tea and coffee pots, china teacups, and plum cakes.


Troy stood at the entrance to the booth, where a gipsy-woman was frying

pancakes over a little fire of sticks and selling them at a penny a-piece, and

looked over the heads of the people within. He could see nothing of Pennyways,

but he soon discerned Bathsheba through an opening into the reserved space at

the further end. Troy thereupon retreated, went round the tent into the

darkness, and listened. He could hear Bathsheba’s voice immediately

inside the canvas; she was conversing with a man. A warmth overspread his face:

surely she was not so unprincipled as to flirt in a fair! He wondered if, then,

she reckoned upon his death as an absolute certainty. To get at the root of the

matter, Troy took a penknife from his pocket and softly made two little cuts

crosswise in the cloth, which, by folding back the corners left a hole the size

of a wafer. Close to this he placed his face, withdrawing it again in a

movement of surprise; for his eye had been within twelve inches of the top of

Bathsheba’s head. It was too near to be convenient. He made another hole

a little to one side and lower down, in a shaded place beside her chair, from

which it was easy and safe to survey her by looking horizontally.


Troy took in the scene completely now. She was leaning back, sipping a cup of

tea that she held in her hand, and the owner of the male voice was Boldwood,

who had apparently just brought the cup to her, Bathsheba, being in a negligent

mood, leant so idly against the canvas that it was pressed to the shape of her

shoulder, and she was, in fact, as good as in Troy’s arms; and he was

obliged to keep his breast carefully backward that she might not feel its

warmth through the cloth as he gazed in.


Troy found unexpected chords of feeling to be stirred again within him as they

had been stirred earlier in the day. She was handsome as ever, and she was his.

It was some minutes before he could counteract his sudden wish to go in, and

claim her. Then he thought how the proud girl who had always looked down upon

him even whilst it was to love him, would hate him on discovering him to be a

strolling player. Were he to make himself known, that chapter of his life must

at all risks be kept for ever from her and from the Weatherbury people, or his

name would be a byword throughout the parish. He would be nicknamed

“Turpin” as long as he lived. Assuredly before he could claim her

these few past months of his existence must be entirely blotted out.


“Shall I get you another cup before you start, ma’am?” said

Farmer Boldwood.


“Thank you,” said Bathsheba. “But I must be going at once. It

was great neglect in that man to keep me waiting here till so late. I should

have gone two hours ago, if it had not been for him. I had no idea of coming in

here; but there’s nothing so refreshing as a cup of tea, though I should

never have got one if you hadn’t helped me.”


Troy scrutinized her cheek as lit by the candles, and watched each varying

shade thereon, and the white shell-like sinuosities of her little ear. She took

out her purse and was insisting to Boldwood on paying for her tea for herself,

when at this moment Pennyways entered the tent. Troy trembled: here was his

scheme for respectability endangered at once. He was about to leave his hole of

espial, attempt to follow Pennyways, and find out if the ex-bailiff had

recognized him, when he was arrested by the conversation, and found he was too

late.


“Excuse me, ma’am,” said Pennyways; “I’ve some

private information for your ear alone.”


“I cannot hear it now,” she said, coldly. That Bathsheba could not

endure this man was evident; in fact, he was continually coming to her with

some tale or other, by which he might creep into favour at the expense of

persons maligned.


“I’ll write it down,” said Pennyways, confidently. He stooped

over the table, pulled a leaf from a warped pocket-book, and wrote upon the

paper, in a round hand—


“Your husband is here. I’ve seen him. Who’s the fool

now?”


This he folded small, and handed towards her. Bathsheba would not read it; she

would not even put out her hand to take it. Pennyways, then, with a laugh of

derision, tossed it into her lap, and, turning away, left her.


From the words and action of Pennyways, Troy, though he had not been able to

see what the ex-bailiff wrote, had not a moment’s doubt that the note

referred to him. Nothing that he could think of could be done to check the

exposure. “Curse my luck!” he whispered, and added imprecations

which rustled in the gloom like a pestilent wind. Meanwhile Boldwood said,

taking up the note from her lap—


“Don’t you wish to read it, Mrs. Troy? If not, I’ll destroy

it.”


“Oh, well,” said Bathsheba, carelessly, “perhaps it is unjust

not to read it; but I can guess what it is about. He wants me to recommend him,

or it is to tell me of some little scandal or another connected with my

work-people. He’s always doing that.”


Bathsheba held the note in her right hand. Boldwood handed towards her a plate

of cut bread-and-butter; when, in order to take a slice, she put the note into

her left hand, where she was still holding the purse, and then allowed her hand

to drop beside her close to the canvas. The moment had come for saving his

game, and Troy impulsively felt that he would play the card. For yet another

time he looked at the fair hand, and saw the pink finger-tips, and the blue

veins of the wrist, encircled by a bracelet of coral chippings which she wore:

how familiar it all was to him! Then, with the lightning action in which he was

such an adept, he noiselessly slipped his hand under the bottom of the

tent-cloth, which was far from being pinned tightly down, lifted it a little

way, keeping his eye to the hole, snatched the note from her fingers, dropped

the canvas, and ran away in the gloom towards the bank and ditch, smiling at

the scream of astonishment which burst from her. Troy then slid down on the

outside of the rampart, hastened round in the bottom of the entrenchment to a

distance of a hundred yards, ascended again, and crossed boldly in a slow walk

towards the front entrance of the tent. His object was now to get to Pennyways,

and prevent a repetition of the announcement until such time as he should

choose.


Troy reached the tent door, and standing among the groups there gathered,

looked anxiously for Pennyways, evidently not wishing to make himself prominent

by inquiring for him. One or two men were speaking of a daring attempt that had

just been made to rob a young lady by lifting the canvas of the tent beside

her. It was supposed that the rogue had imagined a slip of paper which she held

in her hand to be a bank note, for he had seized it, and made off with it,

leaving her purse behind. His chagrin and disappointment at discovering its

worthlessness would be a good joke, it was said. However, the occurrence seemed

to have become known to few, for it had not interrupted a fiddler, who had

lately begun playing by the door of the tent, nor the four bowed old men with

grim countenances and walking-sticks in hand, who were dancing “Major

Malley’s Reel” to the tune. Behind these stood Pennyways. Troy

glided up to him, beckoned, and whispered a few words; and with a mutual glance

of concurrence the two men went into the night together.


CHAPTER LI

BATHSHEBA TALKS WITH HER OUTRIDER


The arrangement for getting back again to Weatherbury had been that Oak should

take the place of Poorgrass in Bathsheba’s conveyance and drive her home,

it being discovered late in the afternoon that Joseph was suffering from his

old complaint, a multiplying eye, and was, therefore, hardly trustworthy as

coachman and protector to a woman. But Oak had found himself so occupied, and

was full of so many cares relative to those portions of Boldwood’s flocks

that were not disposed of, that Bathsheba, without telling Oak or anybody,

resolved to drive home herself, as she had many times done from Casterbridge

Market, and trust to her good angel for performing the journey unmolested. But

having fallen in with Farmer Boldwood accidentally (on her part at least) at

the refreshment-tent, she found it impossible to refuse his offer to ride on

horseback beside her as escort. It had grown twilight before she was aware, but

Boldwood assured her that there was no cause for uneasiness, as the moon would

be up in half-an-hour.


Immediately after the incident in the tent, she had risen to go—now

absolutely alarmed and really grateful for her old lover’s

protection—though regretting Gabriel’s absence, whose company she

would have much preferred, as being more proper as well as more pleasant, since

he was her own managing-man and servant. This, however, could not be helped;

she would not, on any consideration, treat Boldwood harshly, having once

already ill-used him, and the moon having risen, and the gig being ready, she

drove across the hilltop in the wending way’s which led

downwards—to oblivious obscurity, as it seemed, for the moon and the hill

it flooded with light were in appearance on a level, the rest of the world

lying as a vast shady concave between them. Boldwood mounted his horse, and

followed in close attendance behind. Thus they descended into the lowlands, and

the sounds of those left on the hill came like voices from the sky, and the

lights were as those of a camp in heaven. They soon passed the merry stragglers

in the immediate vicinity of the hill, traversed Kingsbere, and got upon the

high road.


The keen instincts of Bathsheba had perceived that the farmer’s staunch

devotion to herself was still undiminished, and she sympathized deeply. The

sight had quite depressed her this evening; had reminded her of her folly; she

wished anew, as she had wished many months ago, for some means of making

reparation for her fault. Hence her pity for the man who so persistently loved

on to his own injury and permanent gloom had betrayed Bathsheba into an

injudicious considerateness of manner, which appeared almost like tenderness,

and gave new vigour to the exquisite dream of a Jacob’s seven years

service in poor Boldwood’s mind.


He soon found an excuse for advancing from his position in the rear, and rode

close by her side. They had gone two or three miles in the moonlight, speaking

desultorily across the wheel of her gig concerning the fair, farming,

Oak’s usefulness to them both, and other indifferent subjects, when

Boldwood said suddenly and simply—


“Mrs. Troy, you will marry again some day?”


This point-blank query unmistakably confused her, and it was not till a minute

or more had elapsed that she said, “I have not seriously thought of any

such subject.”


“I quite understand that. Yet your late husband has been dead nearly one

year, and—”


“You forget that his death was never absolutely proved, and may not have

taken place; so that I may not be really a widow,” she said, catching at

the straw of escape that the fact afforded.


“Not absolutely proved, perhaps, but it was proved circumstantially. A

man saw him drowning, too. No reasonable person has any doubt of his death; nor

have you, ma’am, I should imagine.”


“I have none now, or I should have acted differently,” she said,

gently. “I certainly, at first, had a strange unaccountable feeling that

he could not have perished, but I have been able to explain that in several

ways since. But though I am fully persuaded that I shall see him no more, I am

far from thinking of marriage with another. I should be very contemptible to

indulge in such a thought.”


They were silent now awhile, and having struck into an unfrequented track

across a common, the creaks of Boldwood’s saddle and her gig springs were

all the sounds to be heard. Boldwood ended the pause.


“Do you remember when I carried you fainting in my arms into the

King’s Arms, in Casterbridge? Every dog has his day: that was

mine.”


“I know—I know it all,” she said, hurriedly.


“I, for one, shall never cease regretting that events so fell out as to

deny you to me.”


“I, too, am very sorry,” she said, and then checked herself.

“I mean, you know, I am sorry you thought I—”


“I have always this dreary pleasure in thinking over those past times

with you—that I was something to you before he was anything, and

that you belonged almost to me. But, of course, that’s nothing.

You never liked me.”


“I did; and respected you, too.”


“Do you now?”


“Yes.”


“Which?”


“How do you mean which?”


“Do you like me, or do you respect me?”


“I don’t know—at least, I cannot tell you. It is difficult

for a woman to define her feelings in language which is chiefly made by men to

express theirs. My treatment of you was thoughtless, inexcusable, wicked! I

shall eternally regret it. If there had been anything I could have done to make

amends I would most gladly have done it—there was nothing on earth I so

longed to do as to repair the error. But that was not possible.”


“Don’t blame yourself—you were not so far in the wrong as you

suppose. Bathsheba, suppose you had real complete proof that you are what, in

fact, you are—a widow—would you repair the old wrong to me by

marrying me?”


“I cannot say. I shouldn’t yet, at any rate.”


“But you might at some future time of your life?”


“Oh yes, I might at some time.”


“Well, then, do you know that without further proof of any kind you may

marry again in about six years from the present—subject to nobody’s

objection or blame?”


“Oh yes,” she said, quickly. “I know all that. But

don’t talk of it—seven or six years—where may we all be by

that time?”


“They will soon glide by, and it will seem an astonishingly short time to

look back upon when they are past—much less than to look forward to

now.”


“Yes, yes; I have found that in my own experience.”


“Now listen once more,” Boldwood pleaded. “If I wait that

time, will you marry me? You own that you owe me amends—let that be your

way of making them.”


“But, Mr. Boldwood—six years—”


“Do you want to be the wife of any other man?”


“No indeed! I mean, that I don’t like to talk about this matter

now. Perhaps it is not proper, and I ought not to allow it. Let us drop it. My

husband may be living, as I said.”


“Of course, I’ll drop the subject if you wish. But propriety has

nothing to do with reasons. I am a middle-aged man, willing to protect you for

the remainder of our lives. On your side, at least, there is no passion or

blamable haste—on mine, perhaps, there is. But I can’t help seeing

that if you choose from a feeling of pity, and, as you say, a wish to make

amends, to make a bargain with me for a far-ahead time—an agreement which

will set all things right and make me happy, late though it may be—there

is no fault to be found with you as a woman. Hadn’t I the first place

beside you? Haven’t you been almost mine once already? Surely you can say

to me as much as this, you will have me back again should circumstances permit?

Now, pray speak! O Bathsheba, promise—it is only a little

promise—that if you marry again, you will marry me!”


His tone was so excited that she almost feared him at this moment, even whilst

she sympathized. It was a simple physical fear—the weak of the strong;

there was no emotional aversion or inner repugnance. She said, with some

distress in her voice, for she remembered vividly his outburst on the Yalbury

Road, and shrank from a repetition of his anger:—


“I will never marry another man whilst you wish me to be your wife,

whatever comes—but to say more—you have taken me so by

surprise—”


“But let it stand in these simple words—that in six years’

time you will be my wife? Unexpected accidents we’ll not mention, because

those, of course, must be given way to. Now, this time I know you will keep

your word.”


“That’s why I hesitate to give it.”


“But do give it! Remember the past, and be kind.”


She breathed; and then said mournfully: “Oh what shall I do? I

don’t love you, and I much fear that I never shall love you as much as a

woman ought to love a husband. If you, sir, know that, and I can yet give you

happiness by a mere promise to marry at the end of six years, if my husband

should not come back, it is a great honour to me. And if you value such an act

of friendship from a woman who doesn’t esteem herself as she did, and has

little love left, why I—I will—”


“Promise!”


“—Consider, if I cannot promise soon.”


“But soon is perhaps never?”


“Oh no, it is not! I mean soon. Christmas, we’ll say.”


“Christmas!” He said nothing further till he add

w of the kitchen the heads of Mr. and Mrs.

Leivers in the warm glow. It looked very cosy. The road, with pine trees, was

quite black in front.


“Till to-morrow,” he said, jumping on his bicycle.


“You’ll take care, won’t you?” she pleaded.


“Yes.”


His voice already came out of the darkness. She stood a moment watching the

light from his lamp race into obscurity along the ground. She turned very

slowly indoors. Orion was wheeling up over the wood, his dog twinkling after

him, half smothered. For the rest the world was full of darkness, and silent,

save for the breathing of cattle in their stalls. She prayed earnestly for his

safety that night. When he left her, she often lay in anxiety, wondering if he

had got home safely.


He dropped down the hills on his bicycle. The roads were greasy, so he had to

let it go. He felt a pleasure as the machine plunged over the second, steeper

drop in the hill. “Here goes!” he said. It was risky, because of

the curve in the darkness at the bottom, and because of the brewers’

waggons with drunken waggoners asleep. His bicycle seemed to fall beneath him,

and he loved it. Recklessness is almost a man’s revenge on his woman. He

feels he is not valued, so he will risk destroying himself to deprive her

altogether.


The stars on the lake seemed to leap like grasshoppers, silver upon the

blackness, as he spun past. Then there was the long climb home.


“See, mother!” he said, as he threw her the berries and leaves on

to the table.


“H’m!” she said, glancing at them, then away again. She sat

reading, alone, as she always did.


“Aren’t they pretty?”


“Yes.”


He knew she was cross with him. After a few minutes he said:


“Edgar and Miriam are coming to tea to-morrow.”


She did not answer.


“You don’t mind?”


Still she did not answer.


“Do you?” he asked.


“You know whether I mind or not.”


“I don’t see why you should. I have plenty of meals there.”


“You do.”


“Then why do you begrudge them tea?”


“I begrudge whom tea?”


“What are you so horrid for?”


“Oh, say no more! You’ve asked her to tea, it’s quite

sufficient. She’ll come.”


He was very angry with his mother. He knew it was merely Miriam she objected

to. He flung off his boots and went to bed.


Paul went to meet his friends the next afternoon. He was glad to see them

coming. They arrived home at about four o’clock. Everywhere was clean and

still for Sunday afternoon. Mrs. Morel sat in her black dress and black apron.

She rose to meet the visitors. With Edgar she was cordial, but with Miriam cold

and rather grudging. Yet Paul thought the girl looked so nice in her brown

cashmere frock.


He helped his mother to get the tea ready. Miriam would have gladly proffered,

but was afraid. He was rather proud of his home. There was about it now, he

thought, a certain distinction. The chairs were only wooden, and the sofa was

old. But the hearthrug and cushions were cosy; the pictures were prints in good

taste; there was a simplicity in everything, and plenty of books. He was never

ashamed in the least of his home, nor was Miriam of hers, because both were

what they should be, and warm. And then he was proud of the table; the china

was pretty, the cloth was fine. It did not matter that the spoons were not

silver nor the knives ivory-handled; everything looked nice. Mrs. Morel had

managed wonderfully while her children were growing up, so that nothing was out

of place.


Miriam talked books a little. That was her unfailing topic. But Mrs. Morel was

not cordial, and turned soon to Edgar.


At first Edgar and Miriam used to go into Mrs. Morel’s pew. Morel never

went to chapel, preferring the public-house. Mrs. Morel, like a little

champion, sat at the head of her pew, Paul at the other end; and at first

Miriam sat next to him. Then the chapel was like home. It was a pretty place,

with dark pews and slim, elegant pillars, and flowers. And the same people had

sat in the same places ever since he was a boy. It was wonderfully sweet and

soothing to sit there for an hour and a half, next to Miriam, and near to his

mother, uniting his two loves under the spell of the place of worship. Then he

felt warm and happy and religious at once. And after chapel he walked home with

Miriam, whilst Mrs. Morel spent the rest of the evening with her old friend,

Mrs. Burns. He was keenly alive on his walks on Sunday nights with Edgar and

Miriam. He never went past the pits at night, by the lighted lamp-house, the

tall black headstocks and lines of trucks, past the fans spinning slowly like

shadows, without the feeling of Miriam returning to him, keen and almost

unbearable.


She did not very long occupy the Morels’ pew. Her father took one for

themselves once more. It was under the little gallery, opposite the

Morels’. When Paul and his mother came in the chapel the Leivers’s

pew was always empty. He was anxious for fear she would not come: it was so

far, and there were so many rainy Sundays. Then, often very late indeed, she

came in, with her long stride, her head bowed, her face hidden under her hat of

dark green velvet. Her face, as she sat opposite, was always in shadow. But it

gave him a very keen feeling, as if all his soul stirred within him, to see her

there. It was not the same glow, happiness, and pride, that he felt in having

his mother in charge: something more wonderful, less human, and tinged to

intensity by a pain, as if there were something he could not get to.


At this time he was beginning to question the orthodox creed. He was

twenty-one, and she was twenty. She was beginning to dread the spring: he

became so wild, and hurt her so much. All the way he went cruelly smashing her

beliefs. Edgar enjoyed it. He was by nature critical and rather dispassionate.

But Miriam suffered exquisite pain, as, with an intellect like a knife, the man

she loved examined her religion in which she lived and moved and had her being.

But he did not spare her. He was cruel. And when they went alone he was even

more fierce, as if he would kill her soul. He bled her beliefs till she almost

lost consciousness.


“She exults—she exults as she carries him off from me,” Mrs.

Morel cried in her heart when Paul had gone. “She’s not like an

ordinary woman, who can leave me my share in him. She wants to absorb him. She

wants to draw him out and absorb him till there is nothing left of him, even

for himself. He will never be a man on his own feet—she will suck him

up.” So the mother sat, and battled and brooded bitterly.


And he, coming home from his walks with Miriam, was wild with torture. He

walked biting his lips and with clenched fists, going at a great rate. Then,

brought up against a stile, he stood for some minutes, and did not move. There

was a great hollow of darkness fronting him, and on the black upslopes patches

of tiny lights, and in the lowest trough of the night, a flare of the pit. It

was all weird and dreadful. Why was he torn so, almost bewildered, and unable

to move? Why did his mother sit at home and suffer? He knew she suffered badly.

But why should she? And why did he hate Miriam, and feel so cruel towards her,

at the thought of his mother. If Miriam caused his mother suffering, then he

hated her—and he easily hated her. Why did she make him feel as if he

were uncertain of himself, insecure, an indefinite thing, as if he had not

sufficient sheathing to prevent the night and the space breaking into him? How

he hated her! And then, what a rush of tenderness and humility!


Suddenly he plunged on again, running home. His mother saw on him the marks of

some agony, and she said nothing. But he had to make her talk to him. Then she

was angry with him for going so far with Miriam.


“Why don’t you like her, mother?” he cried in despair.


“I don’t know, my boy,” she replied piteously.

“I’m sure I’ve tried to like her. I’ve tried and tried,

but I can’t—I can’t!”


And he felt dreary and hopeless between the two.


Spring was the worst time. He was changeable, and intense and cruel. So he

decided to stay away from her. Then came the hours when he knew Miriam was

expecting him. His mother watched him growing restless. He could not go on with

his work. He could do nothing. It was as if something were drawing his soul out

towards Willey Farm. Then he put on his hat and went, saying nothing. And his

mother knew he was gone. And as soon as he was on the way he sighed with

relief. And when he was with her he was cruel again.


One day in March he lay on the bank of Nethermere, with Miriam sitting beside

him. It was a glistening, white-and-blue day. Big clouds, so brilliant, went by

overhead, while shadows stole along on the water. The clear spaces in the sky

were of clean, cold blue. Paul lay on his back in the old grass, looking up. He

could not bear to look at Miriam. She seemed to want him, and he resisted. He

resisted all the time. He wanted now to give her passion and tenderness, and he

could not. He felt that she wanted the soul out of his body, and not him. All

his strength and energy she drew into herself through some channel which united

them. She did not want to meet him, so that there were two of them, man and

woman together. She wanted to draw all of him into her. It urged him to an

intensity like madness, which fascinated him, as drug-taking might.


He was discussing Michael Angelo. It felt to her as if she were fingering the

very quivering tissue, the very protoplasm of life, as she heard him. It gave

her deepest satisfaction. And in the end it frightened her. There he lay in the

white intensity of his search, and his voice gradually filled her with fear, so

level it was, almost inhuman, as if in a trance.


“Don’t talk any more,” she pleaded softly, laying her hand on

his forehead.


He lay quite still, almost unable to move. His body was somewhere discarded.


“Why not? Are you tired?”


“Yes, and it wears you out.”


He laughed shortly, realising.


“Yet you always make me like it,” he said.


“I don’t wish to,” she said, very low.


“Not when you’ve gone too far, and you feel you can’t bear

it. But your unconscious self always asks it of me. And I suppose I want

it.”


He went on, in his dead fashion:


“If only you could want me, and not want what I can reel off for

you!”


“I!” she cried bitterly—“I! Why, when would you let me

take you?”


“Then it’s my fault,” he said, and, gathering himself

together, he got up and began to talk trivialities. He felt insubstantial. In a

vague way he hated her for it. And he knew he was as much to blame himself.

This, however, did not prevent his hating her.


One evening about this time he had walked along the home road with her. They

stood by the pasture leading down to the wood, unable to part. As the stars

came out the clouds closed. They had glimpses of their own constellation,

Orion, towards the west. His jewels glimmered for a moment, his dog ran low,

struggling with difficulty through the spume of cloud.


Orion was for them chief in significance among the constellations. They had

gazed at him in their strange, surcharged hours of feeling, until they seemed

themselves to live in every one of his stars. This evening Paul had been moody

and perverse. Orion had seemed just an ordinary constellation to him. He had

fought against his glamour and fascination. Miriam was watching her

lover’s mood carefully. But he said nothing that gave him away, till the

moment came to part, when he stood frowning gloomily at the gathered clouds,

behind which the great constellation must be striding still.


There was to be a little party at his house the next day, at which she was to

attend.


“I shan’t come and meet you,” he said.


“Oh, very well; it’s not very nice out,” she replied slowly.


“It’s not that—only they don’t like me to. They say I

care more for you than for them. And you understand, don’t you? You know

it’s only friendship.”


Miriam was astonished and hurt for him. It had cost him an effort. She left

him, wanting to spare him any further humiliation. A fine rain blew in her face

as she walked along the road. She was hurt deep down; and she despised him for

being blown about by any wind of authority. And in her heart of hearts,

unconsciously, she felt that he was trying to get away from her. This she would

never have acknowledged. She pitied him.


At this time Paul became an important factor in Jordan’s warehouse. Mr.

Pappleworth left to set up a business of his own, and Paul remained with Mr.

Jordan as Spiral overseer. His wages were to be raised to thirty shillings at

the year-end, if things went well.


Still on Friday night Miriam often came down for her French lesson. Paul did

not go so frequently to Willey Farm, and she grieved at the thought of her

education’s coming to end; moreover, they both loved to be together, in

spite of discords. So they read Balzac, and did compositions, and felt highly

cultured.


Friday night was reckoning night for the miners. Morel

“reckoned”—shared up the money of the stall—either in

the New Inn at Bretty or in his own house, according as his fellow-butties

wished. Barker had turned a non-drinker, so now the men reckoned at

Morel’s house.


Annie, who had been teaching away, was at home again. She was still a tomboy;

and she was engaged to be married. Paul was studying design.


Morel was always in good spirits on Friday evening, unless the week’s

earnings were small. He bustled immediately after his dinner, prepared to get

washed. It was decorum for the women to absent themselves while the men

reckoned. Women were not supposed to spy into such a masculine privacy as the

butties’ reckoning, nor were they to know the exact amount of the

week’s earnings. So, whilst her father was spluttering in the scullery,

Annie went out to spend an hour with a neighbour. Mrs. Morel attended to her

baking.


“Shut that doo-er!” bawled Morel furiously.


Annie banged it behind her, and was gone.


“If tha oppens it again while I’m weshin’ me, I’ll

ma’e thy jaw rattle,” he threatened from the midst of his

soap-suds. Paul and the mother frowned to hear him.


Presently he came running out of the scullery, with the soapy water dripping

from him, dithering with cold.


“Oh, my sirs!” he said. “Wheer’s my towel?”


It was hung on a chair to warm before the fire, otherwise he would have bullied

and blustered. He squatted on his heels before the hot baking-fire to dry

himself.


“F-ff-f!” he went, pretending to shudder with cold.


“Goodness, man, don’t be such a kid!” said Mrs. Morel.

“It’s not cold.”


“Thee strip thysen stark nak’d to wesh thy flesh i’ that

scullery,” said the miner, as he rubbed his hair; “nowt b’r a

ice-’ouse!”


“And I shouldn’t make that fuss,” replied his wife.


“No, tha’d drop down stiff, as dead as a door-knob, wi’ thy

nesh sides.”


“Why is a door-knob deader than anything else?” asked Paul,

curious.


“Eh, I dunno; that’s what they say,” replied his father.

“But there’s that much draught i’ yon scullery, as it blows

through your ribs like through a five-barred gate.”


“It would have some difficulty in blowing through yours,” said Mrs.

Morel.


Morel looked down ruefully at his sides.


“Me!” he exclaimed. “I’m nowt b’r a skinned

rabbit. My bones fair juts out on me.”


“I should like to know where,” retorted his wife.


“Iv’ry-wheer! I’m nobbut a sack o’ faggots.”


Mrs. Morel laughed. He had still a wonderfully young body, muscular, without

any fat. His skin was smooth and clear. It might have been the body of a man of

twenty-eight, except that there were, perhaps, too many blue scars, like

tattoo-marks, where the coal-dust remained under the skin, and that his chest

was too hairy. But he put his hand on his side ruefully. It was his fixed

belief that, because he did not get fat, he was as thin as a starved rat. Paul

looked at his father’s thick, brownish hands all scarred, with broken

nails, rubbing the fine smoothness of his sides, and the incongruity struck

him. It seemed strange they were the same flesh.


“I suppose,” he said to his father, “you had a good figure

once.”


“Eh!” exclaimed the miner, glancing round, startled and timid, like

a child.


“He had,” exclaimed Mrs. Morel, “if he didn’t hurtle

himself up as if he was trying to get in the smallest space he could.”


“Me!” exclaimed Morel—“me a good figure! I wor niver

much more n’r a skeleton.”


“Man!” cried his wife, “don’t be such a

pulamiter!”


“‘Strewth!” he said. “Tha’s niver knowed me but

what I looked as if I wor goin’ off in a rapid decline.”


She sat and laughed.


“You’ve had a constitution like iron,” she said; “and

never a man had a better start, if it was body that counted. You should have

seen him as a young man,” she cried suddenly to Paul, drawing herself up

to imitate her husband’s once handsome bearing.


Morel watched her shyly. He saw again the passion she had had for him. It

blazed upon her for a moment. He was shy, rather scared, and humble. Yet again

he felt his old glow. And then immediately he felt the ruin he had made during

these years. He wanted to bustle about, to run away from it.


“Gi’e my back a bit of a wesh,” he asked her.


His wife brought a well-soaped flannel and clapped it on his shoulders. He gave

a jump.


“Eh, tha mucky little ’ussy!” he cried. “Cowd as

death!”


“You ought to have been a salamander,” she laughed, washing his

back. It was very rarely she would do anything so personal for him. The

children did those things.


“The next world won’t be half hot enough for you,” she added.


“No,” he said; “tha’lt see as it’s draughty for

me.”


But she had finished. She wiped him in a desultory fashion, and went upstairs,

returning immediately with his shifting-trousers. When he was dried he

struggled into his shirt. Then, ruddy and shiny, with hair on end, and his

flannelette shirt hanging over his pit-trousers, he stood warming the garments

he was going to put on. He turned them, he pulled them inside out, he scorched

them.


“Goodness, man!” cried Mrs. Morel, “get dressed!”


“Should thee like to clap thysen into britches as cowd as a tub o’

water?” he said.


At last he took off his pit-trousers and donned decent black. He did all this

on the hearthrug, as he would have done if Annie and her familiar friends had

been present.


Mrs. Morel turned the bread in the oven. Then from the red earthenware panchion

of dough that stood in a corner she took another handful of paste, worked it to

the proper shape, and dropped it into a tin. As she was doing so Barker knocked

and entered. He was a quiet, compact little man, who looked as if he would go

through a stone wall. His black hair was cropped short, his head was bony. Like

most miners, he was pale, but healthy and taut.


“Evenin’, missis,” he nodded to Mrs. Morel, and he seated

himself with a sigh.


“Good-evening,” she replied cordially.


“Tha’s made thy heels crack,” said Morel.


“I dunno as I have,” said Barker.


He sat, as the men always did in Morel’s kitchen, effacing himself

rather.


“How’s missis?” she asked of him.


He had told her some time back:



decided what he wanted to do with it.


When you watched Leon sleep you could tell a lot more about what had

happened to him than he could.  He moaned, and muttered constantly, and

panted, and felt around for the gun, and breathed like he was running

again, and fought until Laddie had to hold him on the couch, and

finally awakened him.  But it did no good; he went right off to sleep

again, and it happened all over.  Then father began getting his

Crusader blood up, although he always said he was a man of peace.  But

it was a lucky thing Even So got away; for after father had watched

Leon a while, he said if that man had been on the premises, his fingers

itched so to get at him, he was positive he'd have vented a little

righteous indignation on him that would have cost him within an inch of

his life.  And he'd have done it too!  He was like that.  It took a

lot, and it was slow coming, but when he became angry enough, and felt

justified in it, why you'd be much safer to be some one else than the

man who provoked him.


After ten o'clock the dog barked, some one tapped, and father went; he

always would open the door; you couldn't make him pretend he was

asleep, or not at home when he was, and there stood Mr. Pryor.  He said

they could see the lights and they were afraid the boy was ill, and

could any of them help.  Father said there was nothing they could do;

Leon was asleep.  Then Mr. Pryor said:  "If he is off sound, so it

won't disturb him, I would like to see him again."


Father told him Leon was restless, but so exhausted a railroad train

wouldn't waken him, so Mr. Pryor came in and went to the couch.  He

took off his hat, like you do beside a grave, while his face slowly

grew whiter than his hair, and that would be snow-white; then he turned

at last and stumbled toward the door.  Laddie held it for him, but he

didn't seem to remember he was there.  He muttered over and over:

"Why?  Why?  In the name of God, why?"  Laddie followed to the gate to

help him on his horse, because he thought he was almost out of his

head, but he had walked across the fields, so Laddie kept far behind

and watched until he saw him go safely inside his own door.


I think father and Laddie sat beside Leon all night.  The others went

to sleep.  A little after daybreak, just as Laddie was starting to

feed, there was an awful clamour, and here came a lot of neighbours

with Even So.  Mr. Freshett had found him asleep in a cattle hole in

the straw stack, and searched him, and he had more money, and that made

Mr. Freshett sure; and as he was very strong, and had been for years a

soldier, and really loved to fight, he marched poor Even So back to our

house.  Every few rods they met more men out searching who came with

them, until there were so many, our front yard and the road were

crowded.  Of all the sights you ever saw, Even So looked the worst.

You could see that he'd drop over at much more.  Those men kept crying

they were going to hang him; but mother went out and talked to them,

and said they mustn't kill a man for taking only money.  She told them

how little it was worth compared with other things; she had Candace

bring Even So a cup of hot coffee, lots of bread, and sausage from the

skillet, and she said it was our money, and our lad, and we wanted

nothing done about it.  The men didn't like it, but the traveller did.

He grabbed and gobbled like a beast at the hot food and cried, and

mother said she forgave him, and to let him go.


Then Mr. Freshett looked awful disappointed, and he came up to father,

with his back toward mother, and asked:  "That's your say too, Mr.

Stanton?"  Father grinned sort of rueful-like, but he said to give Even

So his money and let him go.  He told all about getting ours back, and

having had him at the house once before.  He brought the money Leon

took from him, but the men said no doubt he had stolen that, and Leon

had earned it bringing him back, so the traveller shouldn't have it.

They took him away on a horse and said they'd let him go, but that

they'd escort him from the county.  Father told Mr. Freshett that he

was a little suspicious of them, and he would hold him responsible for

the man's life.  Mr. Freshett said that he'd give his word that the man

would be safe; they only wanted to make sure he wouldn't come back, and

that he'd be careful in the future how he abused hospitality, so they

went, and all of us were glad of it.


I don't know what Mr. Freshett calls safe, for they took Even So to

Groveville and locked him up until night.  Then they led him to the

railroad, and made him crawl back and forth through an old engine

beside the track, until he was blacker than any negro ever born; and

then they had him swallow a big dose of croton oil for his health.

That was the only KIND thing they did, for afterward they started him

down the track and told him to run, and all of them shot at his feet as

he went.  Hannah Freshett told me at school the next day.  Her father

said Even So just howled, and flew up in the air, and ducked, and

dodged and ran like he'd never walked a step, or was a bit tired.  We

made a game of it, and after that one of the boys was Even So, and the

others were the mob, and the one who could howl nicest, jump highest,

and go fastest, could be "It" oftenest.


Leon grew all right faster than you would think.  He went to school day

after next, and the boys were sick with envy.  They asked and asked,

but Leon wouldn't tell much.  He didn't seem to like to talk about it,

and he wouldn't play the game or even watch us.  He talked a blue

streak about the money.  Father was going to write to every sheriff of

the counties along the way the man said he had come, and if he could

find no one before spring who had been robbed, he said Leon might do

what he liked with the money.  I used to pretend it was coming to me,

and each day I thought of a new way to spend it.  Leon was so sure he'd

get it he marched right over and asked Mr. Pryor about a nice young

thoroughbred horse, from his stables, and when he came back he could

get a coltlike one so very cheap that father and Laddie looked at each

other and gasped, and never said a word.  They figured up, and if Leon

got the money, he could have the horse, and save some for college, and

from the start he never changed a mite about those two things he wanted

to do with it.  He had the horse picked out and went to the field to

feed and pet it and make it gentle, so he could ride bareback, and

mother said he would be almost sick if the owner of the money turned up.


Pulling his boots one night, father said so too, and that the thoughts

of it worried him.  He said Mr. Pryor had shaded his price so that if

the money had to go, he would be tempted to see if we couldn't manage

it ourselves.  I don't know how shading the price of a horse would make

her feel better, but it did, and maybe Leon is going to get it.


CHAPTER X


Laddie Takes the Plunge


"This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth

The tender leaves of hopes; to-morrow blossoms,

And bears his blushing honors thick upon him;

The third day comes a frost, a killing frost,

And, when he thinks, good, easy man, full surely

His greatness is a-ripening, nips his root,

And then he falls, as I do."


"Watch me take the plunge!" said Laddie.


"'Mad frenzy fires him now,'" quoted Leon.


It was Sunday after dinner.  We had been to church and Sunday-school in

the forenoon, and we had a houseful of company for dinner.  All of them

remained to spend the afternoon, because in our home it was perfectly

lovely.  We had a big dinner with everything good to start on, and then

we talked and visited and told all the news.  The women exchanged new

recipes for cooking, advised each other about how to get more work done

with less worry, to doctor their sick folks, and to make their dresses.

At last, when every thing was talked over, and there began to be a

quiet time, father would reach across the table, pick up a paper and

read all the interesting things that had happened in the country during

the past week; the jokes too, and they made people think of funny

stories to tell, and we just laughed.  In the Agriculturist there were

new ways to farm easier, to make land bear more crops; so he divided

that with the neighbours, also how to make gardens, and prune trees.

Before he finished, he always managed to work in a lot about being

honest, kind, and loving God.


He and mother felt so good over Leon, and by this time they were

beginning to see that they were mighty glad about the money too.  It

wouldn't have been so easy to work, and earn, and pay back all that for

our school, roads, and the church; and every day you could see plainer

how happy they felt that they didn't have to do it.  Because they were

so glad about these things, they invited every one they met that day;

but we knew Saturday mother felt that probably she would ask a crowd,

from the chickens, pie, and cake she got ready.  When the reading part

was over, and the women were beginning to look at the clock, and you

knew they felt they should go home, and didn't want to, Laddie arose

and said that, and Leon piped up like he always does and made every one

laugh.  Of course they looked at Laddie, and no one knew what he meant,

so all the women and a few of the men asked him.


"Watch me, I said," laughed Laddie as he left the room.


Soon Mrs. Dover, sitting beside the front window, cried:  "Here he is

at the gate!"


He was on his horse, but he hitched it and went around the house and up

the back way.  Before long the stair door of the sitting-room opened,

and there he stood.  We stared at him.  Of course he was bathed, and in

clean clothing to start with, but he had washed and brushed some more,

until he shone.  His cheeks were as smooth and as clear pink as any

girl's, his eyes blue-gray and big, with long lashes and heavy brows.

His hair was bright brown and wavy, and he was so big and broad.  He

never had been sick a day in his life, and he didn't look as if he ever

would be.


And clothes DO make a difference.  He would have had exactly the same

hair, face, and body, wearing a hickory shirt and denim trousers; but

he wouldn't have looked as he did in the clothes he wore at college,

when it was Sunday there, or he was invited to a party at the

President's.  I don't see how any man could possibly be handsomer or

look finer.  His shirt, collar, and cuffs were snow-white, like

everything had to be before mother got through with it; his big loose

tie almost reached his shoulders; and our men could do a thing no other

man in the neighbourhood did: they could appear easier in the finest

suit they could put on than in their working clothes.


Mother used to say one thing she dreaded about Sunday was the evident

tortures of the poor men squirming in boots she knew pinched them,

coats too tight, and collars too high.  She said they acted like

half-broken colts fretting over restriction.  Always she said to father

and the boys when they went to buy their new clothes:  "Now, DON'T join

the harness fighters!  Get your clothing big enough to set your bodies

with comfort and ease."


I suppose those other men would have looked like ours if their mothers

had told them.  You can always see that a man needs a woman to help him

out awful bad.


Of course Laddie knew he was handsome; he had to know all of them were

looking at him curiously, but he stood there buttoning his glove and

laughing to himself until Sarah Hood asked:  "Now what are you up to?"


He took a step toward her, ran one hand under her lanternjawed chin,

pulled her head against his side and turned up her face.


"Sarah," he said, "'member the day we spoiled the washing?"


Every one laughed.  They had made jokes about it until our friends knew

what they meant.


"What are you going to spoil now?" asked Sarah.


"The Egyptians!  The 'furriners.' I'm going right after them!"


"Well, you could be in better business," said Sarah Hood sharply.


Laddie laughed and squeezed her chin, and hugged her head against him.


"Listen to that, now!" he cried.  "My best friend going back on me.

Sarah, I thought you, of all people, would wish me luck."


"I do!" she said instantly.  "And that's the very reason I don't want

you mixed up with that mysterious, offish, stuck-up mess."


"Bless your dear heart!" said Laddie, giving her a harder squeeze than

ever.  "You got that all wrong, Sarah.  You'll live to see the day,

very shortly, when you'll change every word of it."


"I haven't done anything but get surer about it every day for two

years, anyway," said Sarah Hood.


"Exactly!" said Laddie, "but wait until I have taken the plunge!  Let

me tell you how the Pryor family strikes me.  I think he is a

high-tempered, domineering man, proud as Lucifer!  For some cause, just

or not, he is ruining his life and that of his family because he so

firmly believes it just; he is hiding here from his home country, his

relatives, and friends.  I think she is, barring you and mother, the

handsomest woman of her age I ever saw——"


All of them laughed, because Sarah Hood was nearly as homely as a woman

could grow, and maybe other people didn't find our mother so lovely as

we thought her.  I once heard one of her best friends say she was

"distinctly plain."  I didn't see how she could; but she said that.


"—and the most pitiful," Laddie went on.  "Sarah, what do you suppose

sends a frail little woman pacing the yard, and up and down the road,

sometimes in storm and rain, gripping both hands over her heart?"


"I suppose it's some shameful thing I don't want you mixed up with!"

said Sarah Hood promptly, and people just shouted.


"Sarah," said Laddie, "I've seen her closely, watched her move, and

studied her expression.  There's not one grain of possibility that you,

or mother, or Mrs. Fall, or any woman here, could be any closer

connected with SHAME.  Shame there is," said Laddie, "and what a word!

How it stings, burns, withers, and causes heart trouble and hiding; but

shame in connection with that woman, more than shame thrust upon her,

which might come to any of us, at any time, shame that is her error, in

the life of a woman having a face like hers, Sarah, I am ashamed of

you!  Your only excuse is that you haven't persisted as I have until

you got to see for yourself."


"I am not much on persistence in the face of a locked door, a cast-iron

man with a big cane, and two raving bulldogs," said Mrs. Hood.  "Wait,

young man!  Just wait until he sets them on you."


Laddie's head went back and how he laughed.


"Hist!  A word with you, Sarah!" he said.  "'Member I have a sort of

knack with animals.  I never yet have failed with one I undertook to

win.  Now those bulldogs of Pryors' are as mild as kittens with a man

who knows the right word.  Reason I know, Sarah, I've said the word to

them, separately and collectively, and it worked.  There is a contrast,

Sarah, between what I say and do to those dogs, and the kicks and

curses they get from their owner.  I'll wager you two to one that if

you can get Mr. Pryor to go into a 'sic-ing' contest with me, I can

have his own dogs at his throat, when he can't make them do more than

to lick my hands."


They laughed as if that were funny.


"Well, I didn't know about this," said Sarah.  "How long have you lived

at Pryors'?"


You couldn't have heard what Laddie said if he'd spoken; so he waited

until he could be heard, and it never worried him a speck.


He only stood and laughed too; then, "Long enough," he said, "to know

that all of us are making a big and cruel mistake in taking them at

their word, and leaving them penned up there weltering in misery.  What

we should do, is to go over there, one at a time, or in a body, and

batter at the door of their hearts, until we break down the wall of

pride they have built around them, ease their pain, and bring them with

us socially, if they are going to live among us.  You people who talk

loudly and often about loving God, and 'doing unto others,' should have

gone long ago, for Jesus' sake; I'm going for the sake of a girl, with

a face as sweet, and a heart as pure, as any accepted angel at the foot

of the throne.  Mother, I want a cup of peach jelly, and some of that

exceptionally fine cake you served at dinner, to take to our sick

neighbour."


Mother left the room.


"Father, I want permission to cut and carry a generous chestnut branch,

burred, and full fruited, to the young woman.  There is none save ours

in this part of the country, and she may never have seen any, and be

interested.  And I want that article about foot disease in horses, for

Mr. Pryor.  I'll bring it back when he finishes."


Father folded the paper and handed it to Laddie, who slipped it in his

pocket.


"Take the finest branch you can select," father said, and I almost fell

over.


He had carried those trees from Ohio, before I had been born, and

mother said for years he wrapped them in her shawl in winter and held

an umbrella over them in summer, and father always went red and grinned

when she told it.  He was wild about trees, and bushes, so he made up

his mind he'd have chestnuts.  He planted them one place, and if they

didn't like it, he dug them up and set them another where he thought

they could have what they needed and hadn't got the last place.

Finally, he put them, on the fourth move, on a little sandy ridge

across the road from the wood yard, and that was the spot.  They shot

up, branched, spread, and one was a male and two were females, so the

pollen flew, the burrs filled right, and we had a bag of chestnuts to

send each child away from home, every Christmas.  The brown leaves and

burrs were so lovely, mother cut one of the finest branches she could

select and hung it above the steel engraving of "Lincoln Freeing the

Slaves," in the boys' room, and nothing in the house was looked at

oftener, or thought prettier.  That must have been what was in the back

of Laddie's head when he wanted a branch for the Princess.


Mother came in with the cake and jelly in a little fancy basket, and

Laddie said:  "Thank you!  Now every one wish me luck!  I'm going to

ride to Pryors', knock at the door, and present these offerings with my

compliments.  If I'm invited in, I'm going to make the effort of my

life at driving the entering wedge toward social intercourse between

Pryors and their neighbours.  If I'm not, I'll be back in thirty

minutes and tell you what happened to me.  If they refuse my gifts, you

shall have the jelly, Sarah; I'll give Mrs. Fall the olive branch,

bring back the paper, and eat the cake to console my wounded spirits."


Of course every one laughed; they couldn't help it.  I watched father

and he laughed hardest of the men, but mother was more stiff-lipped

about it; she couldn't help a little, though.  And I noticed some of

those women acted as if they had lost something.  Maybe it was a chance

to gossip about Laddie, for he hadn't left them a thing to guess at,

and mother says the reason gossip is so dreadful is because it is

always GUESSWORK.  Well, that was all fair and plain.  H

 sole Power to try all Impeachments.

When sitting for that Purpose, they shall be on Oath or Affirmation.

When the President of the United States is tried, the Chief Justice

shall preside: And no Person shall be convicted without the Concurrence

of two thirds of the Members present.
Judgment in cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to removal

from Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office of honor,

Trust or Profit under the United States:  but the Party convicted shall

nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and

Punishment, according to Law.
Section 4.  The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and

Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof;

but the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such Regulations,

except as to the Places of chusing Senators.
The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year,

and such Meeting shall be on the first Monday in December,

unless they shall by law appoint a different Day.
Section 5.  Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections,

Returns and Qualifications of its own Members, and a

Majority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do Business;

but a smaller Number may adjourn from day to day,

and may be authorized to compel the Attendance of absent Members,

in such Manner, and under such Penalties as each House may provide.
Each house may determine the Rules of its Proceedings,

punish its Members for disorderly Behavior, and, with the

Concurrence of two-thirds, expel a Member.
Each house shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings,

and from time to time publish the same, excepting such Parts as may

in their Judgment require Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the

Members of either House on any question shall, at the Desire of

one fifth of those Present, be entered on the Journal.
Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, without the

Consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to

any other Place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting.
Section 6.  The Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation

for their Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid out of the Treasury

of the United States.  They shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony and

Breach of the Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance

at the Session of their respective Houses, and in going to and returning

from the same; and for any Speech or Debate in either House,

they shall not be questioned in any other Place.
No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for which he was elected,

be appointed to any civil Office under the authority of the United States,

which shall have been created, or the Emoluments whereof shall have been

increased during such time; and no Person holding any Office under the

United States, shall be a Member of either House during his Continuance

in Office.
Section 7.  All Bills for raising Revenue shall originate in the

House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with

Amendments as on other Bills.
Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and

the Senate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the

President of the United States; If he approve he shall sign it,

but if not he shall return it, with his Objections to that House

in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the Objections

at large on their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it.

If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that house

shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be sent,

together with the Objections, to the other House, by which

it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds

of that House, it shall become a law.  But in all such Cases

the Votes of both Houses shall be determined by Yeas and Nays,

and the Names of the Persons voting for and against the Bill shall be

entered on the Journal of each House respectively.  If any Bill

shall not be returned by the President within ten Days (Sundays excepted)

after it shall have been presented to him, the Same shall be a Law,

in like Manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their

Adjournment prevent its Return, in which case it shall not be a Law.
Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the Concurrence of the Senate

and House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a question

of Adjournment) shall be presented to the President of the United States;

and before the Same shall take Effect, shall be approved by him,

or being disapproved by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of

the Senate and House of Representatives, according to the Rules

and Limitations prescribed in the Case of a Bill.
Section 8.  The Congress shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes, Duties,

Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence

and general Welfare of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises

shall be uniform throughout the United States;
To borrow Money on the credit of the United States;
To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States,

and with the Indian Tribes;
To establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization, and uniform Laws

on the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States;
To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin,

and fix the Standard of Weights and Measures;
To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the Securities

and current Coin of the United States;
To establish Post Offices and Post Roads;
To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing

for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right

to their respective Writings and Discoveries;
To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court;
To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas,

and Offenses against the Law of Nations;
To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal,

and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water;
To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of Money to that Use

shall be for a longer term than two Years;
To provide and maintain a Navy;
To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces;
To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union,

suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;
To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and for

governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the

United States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment

of the Officers, and the Authority of training the militia according

to the discipline prescribed by Congress;
To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever,

over such District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may,

by Cession of particular States, and the Acceptance of Congress,

become the Seat of the Government of the United States, and to

exercise like Authority over all Places purchased by the Consent

of the Legislature of the State in which the Same shall be,

for the Erection of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, Dockyards,

and other needful Buildings;—And
To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying

into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested

by this Constitution in the Government of the United States,

or in any Department or Officer thereof.
Section 9.  The Migration or Importation of such Persons as any

of the States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not

be prohibited by the Congress prior to the Year one thousand eight

hundred and eight, but a Tax or Duty may be imposed on such Importation,

not exceeding ten dollars for each Person.
The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless

when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it.
No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.
No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid, unless in Proportion

to the Census or Enumeration herein before directed to be taken.
No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State.
No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of Commerce or Revenue

to the Ports of one State over those of another: nor shall Vessels bound to,

or from, one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties in another.
No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence

of Appropriations made by Law; and a regular Statement and Account

of the Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money shall be

published from time to time.
No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States;

and no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall,

without the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument,

Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince,

or foreign State.
Section 10.  No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or

Confederation; grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money;

emit Bills of Credit; make any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender

in Payment of Debts; pass any Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law,

or Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts, or grant any Title of Nobility.
No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts or Duties

on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing

it's inspection Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties and Imposts,

laid by any State on Imports or Exports, shall be for the Use of the Treasury

of the United States; and all such Laws shall be subject to the Revision

and Controul of the Congress.
No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any Duty of

Tonnage, keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace, enter into any

Agreement or Compact with another State, or with a foreign Power, or

engage in War, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent Danger

as will not admit of delay.
ARTICLE II
Section 1.  The executive Power shall be vested in a President

of the United States of America.  He shall hold his Office during

the Term of four Years, and, together with the Vice President

chosen for the same Term, be elected, as follows:
Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct,

a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number of Senators and Representatives

to which the State may be entitled in the Congress:  but no Senator or

Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or Profit under

the United States, shall be appointed an Elector.
The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by Ballot

for two Persons, of whom one at least shall not be an Inhabitant of

the same State with themselves.  And they shall make a List of

all the Persons voted for, and of the Number of Votes for each;

which List they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to

the Seat of the Government of the United States, directed to the

President of the Senate.  The President of the Senate shall,

in the Presence of the Senate and House of Representatives,

open all the Certificates, and the Votes shall then be counted.

The Person having the greatest Number of Votes shall be the President,

if such Number be a Majority of the whole Number of Electors appointed;

and if there be more than one who have such Majority, and have an equal

Number of votes, then the House of Representatives shall immediately

chuse by Ballot one of them for President; and if no Person have

a Majority, then from the five highest on the List the said House

shall in like Manner chuse the President.  But in chusing the President,

the Votes shall be taken by States, the Representation from each State

having one Vote; a Quorum for this Purpose shall consist of a Member

or Members from two thirds of the States, and a Majority of all the

States shall be necessary to a Choice.  In every Case, after the Choice

of the President, the Person having the greatest Number of Votes of

the Electors shall be the Vice President.  But if there should remain

two or more who have equal Votes, the Senate shall chuse from them

by Ballot the Vice President.
The Congress may determine the Time of chusing the Electors,

and the Day on which they shall give their Votes; which Day

shall be the same throughout the United States.
No Person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of the United States,

at the time of the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be eligible to

the Office of President; neither shall any Person be eligible to that

Office who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty five Years,

and been fourteen Years a Resident within the United States.
In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or of his Death,

Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers and Duties of the

said Office, the Same shall devolve on the Vice President, and the

Congress may by Law provide for the Case of Removal, Death, Resignation

or Inability, both of the President and Vice President, declaring what

Officer shall then act as President, and such Officer shall act accordingly,

until the Disability be removed, or a President shall be elected.
The President shall, at stated Times, receive for his Services,

a Compensation, which shall neither be encreased nor diminished during

the Period for which he shall have been elected, and he shall not receive

within that Period any other Emolument from the United States, or any of them.
Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall take the

following Oath or Affirmation:—"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that

I will faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States,

and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the

Constitution of the United States."
Section 2.  The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army

and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States,

when called into the actual Service of the United States;

he may require the Opinion, in writing, of the principal Officer

in each of the executive Departments, upon any Subject relating to

the Duties of their respective Offices, and he shall have Power

to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offenses against the United States,

except in Cases of impeachment.
He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the

Senate, to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators

present concur; and he shall nominate, and by and with the Advice

and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other public

Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the supreme Court, and all other

Officers of the United States, whose Appointments are not herein

otherwise provided for, and which shall be established by Law:

but the Congress may by Law vest the Appointment of such inferior Officers,

as they think proper, in the President alone, in the Courts of Law,

or in the Heads of Departments.
The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies that may happen

during the Recess of the Senate, by granting Commissions which shall

expire at the End of their next session.
Section 3.  He shall from time to time give to the Congress

Information of the State of the Union, and recommend to their

Consideration such Measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient;

he may, on extraordinary Occasions, convene both Houses, or either

of them, and in Case of Disagreement between them, with Respect to

the Time of Adjournment, he may adjourn them to such Time as he shall

think proper; he shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers;

he shall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall

Commission all the Officers of the United States.
Section 4.  The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the

United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for,

and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.
ARTICLE III
Section 1.  The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested

in one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may

from time to time ordain and establish.  The Judges, both of the supreme

and inferior Courts, shall hold their Offices during good behavior,

and shall, at stated Times, receive for their Services, a Compensation,

which shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office.
Section 2.  The judicial Power shall extend to all Cases, in Law and Equity,

arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United States, and Treaties

made, or which shall be made, under their Authority;—to all Cases affecting

Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls;—to all Cases of admiralty

and maritime Jurisdiction;—to Controversies to which the United States

shall be a Party;—to Controversies between two or more States;—between a

State and Citizens of another State;—between Citizens of different States;

—between Citizens of the same State claiming Lands under Grants of

different States, and between a State, or the Citizens thereof,

and foreign States, Citizens or Subjects.
In all cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls,

and those in which a State shall be Party, the supreme Court shall have

original Jurisdiction.  In all the other Cases before mentioned, the

supreme Court shall have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law and Fact,

with such Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress shall make.
The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by Jury;

and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crimes shall

have been committed; but when not committed within any State, the Trial

shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress may by Law have directed.
Section 3.  Treason against the United States, shall consist only in

levying War against them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them

Aid and Comfort.  No Person shall be convicted of Treason unless on

the Testimony of two Witnesses to the same overt Act, or on Confession

in open Court.
The Congress shall have power to declare the punishment of Treason,

but no Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of Blood,

or Forfeiture except during the Life of the Person attainted.
ARTICLE IV
Section 1.  Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the

public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State.

And the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts,

Records, and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof.
Section 2.  The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all

Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.
A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other Crime,

who shall flee from Justice, and be found in another State,

shall on Demand of the executive Authority of the State from

which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having

Jurisdiction of the Crime.
No person held to Service or Labor in one State, under the Laws thereof,

escaping into another, shall, in Consequence of any Law or Regulation therein,

be discharged from such Service or Labor, But shall be delivered up on Claim

of the Party to whom such Service or Labor may be due.
Section 3.  New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union;

but no new States shall be formed or erected within the Jurisdiction

of any other State; nor any State be formed by the Junction of two

or more States, or Parts of States, without the Consent of the

Legislature

ry for the roast, and

that is thine."


Then she ran into the cave and brought forth a bow and a quiver of

arrows, and said:  "Art thou somewhat of an archer?" Quoth he:  "I

shoot not ill."  "And I," she said, "shoot well, all woodcraft comes

handy to me.  But this eve I must trust to thy skill for my supper.  Go

swiftly and come back speedily.  Do off thine hauberk, and beat the

bushes down in the valley, and bring me some small deer, as roe or hare

or coney.  And wash thee in the pool below the stepping-stones, as I

shall do whiles thou art away, and by then thou comest back, all shall

be ready, save the roasting of the venison."


So he did off his wargear, but thereafter tarried a little, looking at

her, and she said:  "What aileth thee not to go? the hunt's up."  He

said: "I would first go see the rock-hall that is for our chamber

to-night; wilt thou not bring me in thither?"  "Nay," she said, "for I

must be busy about many matters; but thou mayst go by thyself, if thou

wilt."


So he went and stooped down and entered the cave, and found it high and

wide within, and clean and fresh and well-smelling, and the floor of

fine white sand without a stain.


So he knelt down and kissed the floor, and said aloud: "God bless this

floor of the rock-hall whereon my love shall lie to-night!" Then he

arose and went out of the cave, and found the Lady at the entry

stooping down to see what he would do; and she looked on him fondly and

anxiously; but he turned a merry face to her, and caught her round the

middle and strained her to his bosom, and then took the bow and arrows

and ran down the slope and over the stream, into the thicket of the

valley.


He went further than he had looked for, ere he found a prey to his

mind, and then he smote a roe with a shaft and slew her, and broke up

the carcase and dight it duly, and so went his ways back.  When he came

to the stream he looked up and saw a little fire glittering not far

from the cave, but had no clear sight of the Lady, though he thought he

saw her gown fluttering nigh one of the thorn-bushes.  Then he did off

his raiment and entered that pool of the stream, and was glad to bathe

him in the same place where her body had been but of late; for he had

noted that the stones of the little shore were still wet with her feet

where she had gone up from the water.


But now, as he swam and sported in the sun-warmed pool he deemed he

heard the whinnying of a horse, but was not sure, so he held himself

still to listen, and heard no more.  Then he laughed and bethought him

of Falcon his own steed, and dived down under the water; but as he came

up, laughing still and gasping, he heard a noise of the clatter of

horse hoofs, as if some one were riding swiftly up the further side of

the grassy table, where it was stony, as he had noted when they passed

by.


A deadly fear fell upon his heart as he thought of his love left all

alone; so he gat him at once out of the water and cast his shirt over

his head; but while his arms were yet entangled in the sleeves thereof,

came to his ears a great and awful sound of a man's voice roaring out,

though there were no shapen words in the roar.  Then were his arms free

through the sleeves, and he took up the bow and fell to bending it, and

even therewith he heard a great wailing of a woman's voice, and she

cried out, piteously:  "Help me, O help, lovely creature of God!"


Yet must he needs finish bending the bow howsoever his heart died

within him; or what help would there be of a naked and unarmed man?  At

last it was bent and an arrow nocked on the string, as he leapt over

the river and up the slope.


But even as he came up to that pleasant place he saw all in a moment of

time; that there stood Silverfax anigh the Cave's mouth, and the Lady

lying on the earth anigh the horse; and betwixt her and him the Knight

of the Sun stood up stark, his shining helm on his head, the last rays

of the setting sun flashing in the broidered image of his armouries.


He turned at once upon Ralph, shaking his sword in the air (and there

was blood upon the blade) and he cried out in terrible voice:  "The

witch is dead, the whore is dead!  And thou, thief, who hast stolen her

from me, and lain by her in the wilderness, now shalt thou die, thou!"


Scarce had he spoken than Ralph drew his bow to the arrow-head and

loosed; there was but some twenty paces betwixt them, and the shaft,

sped by that fell archer, smote the huge man through the eye into the

brain, and he fell down along clattering, dead without a word more.


But Ralph gave forth a great wail of woe, and ran forward and knelt by

the Lady, who lay all huddled up face down upon the grass, and he

lifted her up and laid her gently on her back.  The blood was flowing

fast from a great wound in her breast, and he tore off a piece of his

shirt to staunch it, but she without knowledge of him breathed forth

her last breath ere he could touch the hurt, and he still knelt by her,

staring on her as if he knew not what was toward.


She had dight her what she could to welcome his return from the

hunting, and had set a wreath of meadow-sweet on her red hair, and a

garland of eglantine about her girdlestead, and left her feet naked

after the pool of the stream, and had turned the bezels of her

finger-rings outward, for joy of that meeting.


After a while he rose up with a most bitter cry, and ran down the green

slope and over the water, and hither and thither amongst the bushes

like one mad, till he became so weary that he might scarce go or stand

for weariness.  Then he crept back again to that Chamber of Love, and

sat down beside his new-won mate, calling to mind all the wasted words

of the day gone by; for the summer night was come now, most fair and

fragrant.  But he withheld the sobbing passion of his heart and put

forth his hand, and touched her, and she was still, and his hand felt

her flesh that it was cold as marble.  And he cried out aloud in the

night and the wilderness, where there was none to hear him, and arose

and went away from her, passing by Silverfax who was standing nearby,

stretching out his head, and whinnying at whiles.  And he sat on the

edge of the green table, and there came into his mind despite himself

thoughts of the pleasant fields of Upmeads, and his sports and

pleasures there, and the even-song of the High House, and the folk of

his fellowship and his love.  And therewith his breast arose and his

face was wryed, and he wept loud and long, and as if he should never

make an end of it.  But so weary was he, that at last he lay back and

fell asleep, and woke not till the sun was high in the heavens.  And so

it was, that his slumber had been so heavy, that he knew not at first

what had befallen; and one moment he felt glad, and the next as if he

should never be glad again, though why he wotted not.  Then he turned

about and saw Silverfax cropping the grass nearby, and the Lady lying

there like an image that could move no whit, though the world awoke

about her.  Then he remembered, yet scarce all, so that wild hopes

swelled his heart, and he rose to his knees and turned to her, and

called to mind that he should never see her alive again, and sobbing

and wailing broke out from him, for he was young and strong, and sorrow

dealt hardly with him.


But presently he arose to his feet and went hither and thither, and

came upon the quenched coals of the cooking-fire: she had baked cakes

for his eating, and he saw them lying thereby, and hunger constrained

him, so he took and ate of them while the tears ran down his face and

mingled with the bread he ate.  And when he had eaten, he felt stronger

and therefore was life more grievous to him, and when he thought what

he should do, still one thing seemed more irksome than the other.


He went down to the water to drink, and passed by the body of the

Knight of the Sun, and wrath was fierce in his heart against him who

had overthrown his happiness.  But when he had drunk and washed hands

and face he came back again, and hardened his heart to do what he must

needs do.  He took up the body of the Lady and with grief that may not

be told of, he drew it into the cave, and cut boughs of trees and laid

them over her face and all her body, and then took great stones from

the scree at that other end of the little plain, and heaped them upon

her till she was utterly hidden by them.  Then he came out on to the

green place and looked on the body of his foe, and said to himself that

all must be decent and in order about the place whereas lay his love.

And he came and stood over the body and said: "I have naught to do to

hate him now:  if he hated me, it was but for a little while, and he

knew naught of me.  So let his bones be covered up from the wolf and

the kite.  Yet shall they not lie alongside of her.  I will raise a

cairn above him here on this fair little plain which he spoilt of all

joy." Therewith he fell to, and straightened his body, and laid his

huge limbs together and closed his eyes and folded his arms over his

breast; and then he piled the stones above him, and went on casting

them on the heap a long while after there was need thereof.


Ralph had taken his raiment from the stream-side and done them on

before this, and now he did on helm and hauberk, and girt his sword to

his side.  Then as he was about leaving the sorrowful place, he looked

on Silverfax, who had not strayed from the little plain, and came up to

him and did off saddle and bridle, and laid them within the cave, and

bade the beast go whither he would.  He yet lingered about the place,

and looked all around him and found naught to help him, and could frame

in his mind no intent of a deed then, nor any tale of a deed he should

do thereafter.  Yet belike in his mind were two thoughts, and though

neither softened his grief save a little, he did not shrink from them

as he did from all others; and these two were of his home at Upmeads,

which was so familiar to him, and of the Well at the World's End, which

was but a word.


CHAPTER 11


Ralph Cometh Out of the Wilderness


Long he stood letting these thoughts run through his mind, but at last

when it was now midmorning, he stirred and gat him slowly down the

green slope, and for very pity of himself the tears brake out from him

as he crossed the stream and came into the bushy valley.  There he

stayed his feet a little, and said to himself:  "And whither then am I

going?" He thought of the Castle of Abundance and the Champions of the

Dry Tree, of Higham, and the noble warriors who sat at the Lord Abbot's

board, and of Upmeads and his own folk:  but all seemed naught to him,

and he thought:  "And how can I go back and bear folk asking me

curiously of my wayfarings, and whether I will do this, that, or the

other thing." Withal he thought of that fair damsel and her sweet mouth

in the hostelry at Bourton Abbas, and groaned when he thought of love

and its ending, and he said within himself:  "and now she is a wanderer

about the earth as I am;" and he thought of her quest, and the chaplet

of dame Katherine, his gossip, which he yet bore on his neck, and he

deemed that he had naught to choose but to go forward and seek that he

was doomed to; and now it seemed to him that there was that one thing

to do and no other.  And though this also seemed to him but weariness

and grief, yet whereas he had ever lightly turned him to doing what

work lay ready to hand; so now he knew that he must first of all get

him out of that wilderness, that he might hear the talk of folk

concerning the Well at the World's End, which he doubted not to hear

again when he came into the parts inhabited.


So now, with his will or without it, his feet bore him on, and he

followed up the stream which the Lady had said ran into the broad river

called the Swelling Flood; "for," thought he, "when I come thereabout I

shall presently find some castle or good town, and it is like that

either I shall have some tidings of the folk thereof, or else they will

compel me to do something, and that will irk me less than doing deeds

of mine own will."


He went his ways till he came to where the wood and the trees ended,

and the hills were lower and longer, well grassed with short grass, a

down country fit for the feeding of sheep; and indeed some sheep he

saw, and a shepherd or two, but far off.  At last, after he had left

the stream awhile, because it seemed to him to turn and wind round over

much to the northward, he came upon a road running athwart the down

country, so that he deemed that it must lead one way down to the

Swelling Flood; so he followed it up, and after a while began to fall

in with folk; and first two Companions armed and bearing long swords

over their shoulders: he stopped as they met, and stared at them in the

face, but answered not their greeting; and they had no will to meddle

with him, seeing his inches and that he was well armed, and looked no

craven: so they went on.


Next he came on two women who had with them an ass between two

panniers, laden with country stuff; and they were sitting by the

wayside, one old and the other young.  He made no stay for them, and

though he turned his face their way, took no heed of them more than if

they were trees; though the damsel, who was well-liking and somewhat

gaily clad, stood up when she saw his face anigh, and drew her gown

skirt about her and moved daintily, and sighed and looked after him as

he went on, for she longed for him.


Yet again came two men a-horseback, merchants clad goodly, with three

carles, their servants, riding behind them; and all these had weapons

and gave little more heed to him than he to them.  But a little after

they were gone, he stopped and said within himself: "Maybe I had better

have gone their way, and this road doubtless leadeth to some place of

resort."


But even therewith he heard horsehoofs behind him, and anon came up a

man a-horseback, armed with jack and sallet, a long spear in his hand,

and budgets at his saddle-bow, who looked like some lord's man going a

message.  He nodded to Ralph, who gave him good-day; for seeing these

folk and their ways had by now somewhat amended his mind; and now he

turned not, but went on as before.


At last the way clomb a hill longer and higher than any he had yet

crossed, and when he had come to the brow and looked down, he saw the

big river close below running through the wide valley which he had

crossed with Roger on that other day.  Then he sat down on the green

bank above the way, so heavy of heart that not one of the things he saw

gave him any joy, and the world was naught to him.  But within a while

he came somewhat to himself, and, looking down toward the river, he saw

that where the road met it, it was very wide, and shallow withal, for

the waves rippled merrily and glittered in the afternoon sun, though

there was no wind; moreover the road went up white from the water on

the other side, so he saw clearly that this was the ford of a highway.

The valley was peopled withal: on the other side of the river was a

little thorp, and there were carts and sheds scattered about the hither

side, and sheep and neat feeding in the meadows, and in short it was

another world from the desert.


CHAPTER 12


Ralph Falleth in With Friends and Rideth to Whitwall


Ralph looks on to the ford and sees folk riding through the thorp

aforesaid and down to the river, and they take the water and are many

in company, some two score by his deeming, and he sees the sun

glittering on their weapons.


Now he thought that he would abide their coming and see if he might

join their company, since if he crossed the water he would be on the

backward way: and it was but a little while ere the head of them came

up over the hill, and were presently going past Ralph, who rose up to

look on them, and be seen of them, but they took little heed of him.

So he sees that though they all bore weapons, they were not all

men-at-arms, nay, not more than a half score, but those proper men

enough.  Of the others, some half-dozen seemed by their attire to be

merchants, and the rest their lads; and withal they had many sumpter

horses and mules with them.  They greeted him not, nor he them, nor did

he heed them much till they were all gone by save three, and then he

leapt into the road with a cry, for who should be riding there but

Blaise, his eldest brother, and Richard the Red with him, both in good

case by seeming; for Blaise was clad in a black coat welted with gold,

and rode a good grey palfrey, and Richard was armed well and knightly.


They knew him at once, and drew rein, and Blaise lighted down from his

horse and cast his arms about Ralph, and said: "O happy day! when two

of the Upmeads kindred meet thus in an alien land!  But what maketh

thee here, Ralph?  I thought of thee as merry and safe in Upmeads?"


Ralph said smiling, for his heart leapt up at the sight of his kindred:

"Nay, must I not seek adventures like the rest?  So I stole myself away

from father and mother."  "Ill done, little lord!" said Blaise,

stroking Ralph's cheek.


Then up came Richard, and if Blaise were glad, Richard was twice glad,

and quoth he:  "Said I not, Lord Blaise, that this chick would be the

hardest of all to keep under the coop?  Welcome to the Highways, Lord

Ralph!  But where is thine horse? and whence and whither is it now?

Hast thou met with some foil and been held to ransom?"


Ralph found it hard and grievous and dull work to answer; for now again

his sorrow had taken hold of him:  so he said: "Yea, Richard, I have

had adventures, and have lost rather than won; but at least I am a free

man, and have spent but little gold on my loss."


"That is well," said Richard, "but whence gat ye any gold for

spending?" Ralph smiled, but sadly, for he called to mind the glad

setting forth and the kind face of dame Katherine his gossip, and he

said: "Clement Chapman deemed it not unmeet to stake somewhat on my

luck, therefore I am no pauper."


"Well," said Blaise, "if thou hast no great errand elsewhere, thou

mightest ride with us, brother.  I have had good hap in these days,

though scarce kingly or knightly, for I have been buying and selling:

what matter? few know Upmeads and its kings to wite me with fouling a

fair name.  Richard, go fetch a horse hither for Lord Ralph's riding,

and we will tarry no longer."  So Richard trotted on, and while they

abode him, Ralph asked after his brethren, and Blaise told him that he

had seen or heard naught of them.  Then Ralph asked of whither away,

and Blaise told him to Whitwall, where was much recourse of merchants

from many lands, and a noble market.


Back then cometh Richard leading a good horse while Ralph was pondering

his matter, and thinking that at such a town he might well hear tidings

concerning the Well at the World's End.


Now Ralph mounts, and they all ride away together.  On the way, partly

for brotherhood's sake, partly that he might not be questioned overmuch

himself, Ralph asked Blaise to tell him more of his farings; and Blaise

said, that when he had left Upmeads he had ridden with Richard up and

down and 

ies.  Often have they come round me and taken me by the
hand, but alas!  I am no more destined to behold
them.’

The child who is taken becomes canonised, and the looks of the
homeliest babe seem in the retrospect ‘heavenly the three
last days of his life.’  But it appears that James and
Mary had indeed been children more than usually engaging; a
record was preserved a long while in the family of their remarks
and ‘little innocent and interesting stories,’ and
the blow and the blank were the more sensible.
Early the next month Robert Stevenson must proceed upon his
voyage of inspection, part by land, part by sea.  He left
his wife plunged in low spirits; the thought of his loss, and
still more of her concern, was continually present in his mind,
and he draws in his letters home an interesting picture of his
family relations:
‘Windygates
Inn, Monday (Postmark July 16th)
‘My dearest
Jeannie,—While the people of the inn are getting me
a little bit of something to eat, I sit down to tell you that I
had a most excellent passage across the water, and got to Wemyss
at mid-day.  I hope the children will be very good, and that
Robert will take a course with you to learn his Latin lessons
daily; he may, however, read English in company.  Let them
have strawberries on Saturdays.’
‘Westhaven, 17th
July.
‘I have been occupied to-day at the harbour of Newport,
opposite Dundee, and am this far on my way to Arbroath.  You
may tell the boys that I slept last night in Mr. Steadman’s
tent.  I found my bed rather hard, but the lodgings were
otherwise extremely comfortable.  The encampment is on the
Fife side of the Tay, immediately opposite to Dundee.  From
the door of the tent you command the most beautiful view of the
Firth, both up and down, to a great extent.  At night all
was serene and still, the sky presented the most beautiful
appearance of bright stars, and the morning was ushered in with
the song of many little birds.’
‘Aberdeen, July
19th.
‘I hope, my dear, that you are going out of doors
regularly and taking much exercise.  I would have you to
make the markets daily—and by all means to take a
seat in the coach once or twice in the week and see what is going
on in town.  [The family were at the sea-side.]  It
will be good not to be too great a stranger to the house. 
It will be rather painful at first, but as it is to be done, I
would have you not to be too strange to the house in town.
‘Tell the boys that I fell in with a soldier—his
name is Henderson—who was twelve years with Lord Wellington
and other commanders.  He returned very lately with only
eightpence-halfpenny in his pocket, and found his father and
mother both in life, though they had never heard from him, nor he
from them.  He carried my great-coat and umbrella a few
miles.’
‘Fraserburgh,
July 20th.
‘Fraserburgh is the same dull place which [Auntie] Mary
and Jeannie found it.  As I am travelling along the coast
which they are acquainted with, you had better cause Robert bring
down the map from Edinburgh; and it will be a good exercise in
geography for the young folks to trace my course.  I hope
they have entered upon the writing.  The library will afford
abundance of excellent books, which I wish you would employ a
little.  I hope you are doing me the favour to go much out
with the boys, which will do you much good and prevent them from
getting so very much overheated.’

[To the
Boys—Printed.]
‘When I had last the pleasure of writing to
you, your dear little brother James and your sweet little sister
Mary were still with us.  But it has pleased God to remove
them to another and a better world, and we must submit to the
will of Providence.  I must, however, request of you to
think sometimes upon them, and to be very careful not to do
anything that will displease or vex your mother.  It is
therefore proper that you do not roamp [Scottish indeed] too much
about, and that you learn your lessons.’
‘I went to Fraserburgh and visited Kinnaird Head
Lighthouse, which I found in good order.  All this time I
travelled upon good roads, and paid many a toll-man by the way;
but from Fraserburgh to Banff there is no toll-bars, and the road
is so bad that I had to walk up and down many a hill, and for
want of bridges the horses had to drag the chaise up to the
middle of the wheels in water.  At Banff I saw a large ship
of 300 tons lying on the sands upon her beam-ends, and a wreck
for want of a good harbour.  Captain Wilson—to whom I
beg my compliments—will show you a ship of 300 tons. 
At the towns of Macduff, Banff, and Portsoy, many of the houses
are built of marble, and the rocks on this part of the coast or
sea-side are marble.  But, my dear Boys, unless marble be
polished and dressed, it is a very coarse-looking stone, and has
no more beauty than common rock.  As a proof of this, ask
the favour of your mother to take you to Thomson’s Marble
Works in South Leith, and you will see marble in all its stages,
and perhaps you may there find Portsoy marble!  The use I
wish to make of this is to tell you that, without education, a
man is just like a block of rough, unpolished marble. 
Notice, in proof of this, how much Mr. Neill and Mr.
M’Gregor [the tutor] know, and observe how little a man
knows who is not a good scholar.  On my way to Fochabers I
passed through many thousand acres of Fir timber, and saw many
deer running in these woods.’
[To Mrs. Stevenson.]
‘Inverness, July
21st.
‘I propose going to church in the afternoon, and as I
have breakfasted late, I shall afterwards take a walk, and dine
about six o’clock.  I do not know who is the clergyman
here, but I shall think of you all.  I travelled in the
mail-coach [from Banff] almost alone.  While it was daylight
I kept the top, and the passing along a country I had never
before seen was a considerable amusement.  But, my dear, you
are all much in my thoughts, and many are the objects which
recall the recollection of our tender and engaging children we
have so recently lost.  We must not, however, repine. 
I could not for a moment wish any change of circumstances in
their case; and in every comparative view of their state, I see
the Lord’s goodness in removing them from an evil world to
an abode of bliss; and I must earnestly hope that you may be
enabled to take such a view of this affliction as to live in the
happy prospect of our all meeting again to part no more—and
that under such considerations you are getting up your
spirits.  I wish you would walk about, and by all means go
to town, and do not sit much at home.’
‘Inverness, July
23rd.
‘I am duly favoured with your much-valued letter, and I
am happy to find that you are so much with my mother, because
that sort of variety has a tendency to occupy the mind, and to
keep it from brooding too much upon one subject. 
Sensibility and tenderness are certainly two of the most
interesting and pleasing qualities of the mind.  These
qualities are also none of the least of the many endearingments
of the female character.  But if that kind of sympathy and
pleasing melancholy, which is familiar to us under distress, be
much indulged, it becomes habitual, and takes such a hold of the
mind as to absorb all the other affections, and unfit us for the
duties and proper enjoyments of life.  Resignation sinks
into a kind of peevish discontent.  I am far, however, from
thinking there is the least danger of this in your case, my dear;
for you have been on all occasions enabled to look upon the
fortunes of this life as under the direction of a higher power,
and have always preserved that propriety and consistency of
conduct in all circumstances which endears your example to your
family in particular, and to your friends.  I am therefore,
my dear, for you to go out much, and to go to the house up-stairs
[he means to go up-stairs in the house, to visit the place of the
dead children], and to put yourself in the way of the visits of
your friends.  I wish you would call on the Miss Grays, and
it would be a good thing upon a Saturday to dine with my mother,
and take Meggy and all the family with you, and let them have
their strawberries in town.  The tickets of one of the
old-fashioned coaches would take you all up, and if the
evening were good, they could all walk down, excepting Meggy and
little David.’
‘Inverness, July
25th, 11 p.m.
‘Captain Wemyss, of Wemyss, has come to Inverness to go
the voyage with me, and as we are sleeping in a double-bedded
room, I must no longer transgress.  You must remember me the
best way you can to the children.’
‘On board of the Lighthouse
Yacht, July 29th.
‘I got to Cromarty yesterday about mid-day, and went to
church.  It happened to be the sacrament there, and I heard
a Mr. Smith at that place conclude the service with a very
suitable exhortation.  There seemed a great concourse of
people, but they had rather an unfortunate day for them at the
tent, as it rained a good deal.  After drinking tea at the
inn, Captain Wemyss accompanied me on board, and we sailed about
eight last night.  The wind at present being rather a
beating one, I think I shall have an opportunity of standing into
the bay of Wick, and leaving this letter to let you know my
progress and that I am well.’
‘Lighthouse Yacht,
Stornoway, August 4th.
‘To-day we had prayers on deck as usual when at
sea.  I read the 14th chapter, I think, of Job. 
Captain Wemyss has been in the habit of doing this on board his
own ship, agreeably to the Articles of War.  Our passage
round the Cape [Cape Wrath] was rather a cross one, and as the
wind was northerly, we had a pretty heavy sea, but upon the whole
have made a good passage, leaving many vessels behind us in
Orkney.  I am quite well, my dear; and Captain Wemyss, who
has much spirit, and who is much given to observation, and a
perfect enthusiast in his profession, enlivens the voyage
greatly.  Let me entreat you to move about much, and take a
walk with the boys to Leith.  I think they have still many
places to see there, and I wish you would indulge them in this
respect.  Mr. Scales is the best person I know for showing
them the sailcloth-weaving, etc., and he would have great
pleasure in undertaking this.  My dear, I trust soon to be
with you, and that through the goodness of God we shall meet all
well.’
‘There are two vessels lying here with emigrants for
America, each with eighty people on board, at all ages, from a
few days to upwards of sixty!  Their prospects must be very
forlorn to go with a slender purse for distant and unknown
countries.’
‘Lighthouse Yacht,
off Greenock, Aug. 18th.
‘It was after church-time before we got here, but
we had prayers upon deck on the way up the Clyde.  This has,
upon the whole, been a very good voyage, and Captain Wemyss, who
enjoys it much, has been an excellent companion; we met with
pleasure, and shall part with regret.’

Strange that, after his long experience, my grandfather should
have learned so little of the attitude and even the dialect of
the spiritually-minded; that after forty-four years in a most
religious circle, he could drop without sense of incongruity from
a period of accepted phrases to ‘trust his wife was
getting up her spirits,’ or think to reassure her as
to the character of Captain Wemyss by mentioning that he had read
prayers on the deck of his frigate ‘agreeably to the
Articles of War’!  Yet there is no doubt—and
it is one of the most agreeable features of the kindly
series—that he was doing his best to please, and there is
little doubt that he succeeded.  Almost all my
grandfather’s private letters have been destroyed. 
This correspondence has not only been preserved entire, but
stitched up in the same covers with the works of the godly women,
the Reverend John Campbell, and the painful Mrs. Ogle.  I
did not think to mention the good dame, but she comes in usefully
as an example.  Amongst the treasures of the ladies of my
family, her letters have been honoured with a volume to
themselves.  I read about a half of them myself; then handed
over the task to one of stauncher resolution, with orders to
communicate any fact that should be found to illuminate these
pages.  Not one was found; it was her only art to
communicate by post second-rate sermons at second-hand; and such,
I take it, was the correspondence in which my grandmother
delighted.  If I am right, that of Robert Stevenson, with
his quaint smack of the contemporary ‘Sandford and
Merton,’ his interest in the whole page of experience, his
perpetual quest, and fine scent of all that seems romantic to a
boy, his needless pomp of language, his excellent good sense, his
unfeigned, unstained, unwearied human kindliness, would seem to
her, in a comparison, dry and trivial and worldly.  And if
these letters were by an exception cherished and preserved, it
would be for one or both of two reasons—because they dealt
with and were bitter-sweet reminders of a time of sorrow; or
because she was pleased, perhaps touched, by the writer’s
guileless efforts to seem spiritually-minded.
After this date there were two more births and two more
deaths, so that the number of the family remained unchanged; in
all five children survived to reach maturity and to outlive their
parents.
CHAPTER II: THE SERVICE OF THE NORTHERN LIGHTS
I
It were hard to imagine a contrast more sharply defined than
that between the lives of the men and women of this family: the
one so chambered, so centred in the affections and the
sensibilities; the other so active, healthy, and
expeditious.  From May to November, Thomas Smith and Robert
Stevenson were on the mail, in the saddle, or at sea; and my
grandfather, in particular, seems to have been possessed with a
demon of activity in travel.  In 1802, by direction of the
Northern Lighthouse Board, he had visited the coast of England
from St. Bees, in Cumberland, and round by the Scilly Islands to
some place undecipherable by me; in all a distance of 2500
miles.  In 1806 I find him starting ‘on a tour round
the south coast of England, from the Humber to the
Severn.’  Peace was not long declared ere he found
means to visit Holland, where he was in time to see, in the
navy-yard at Helvoetsluys, ‘about twenty of
Bonaparte’s English flotilla lying in a state of
decay, the object of curiosity to Englishmen.’  By
1834 he seems to have been acquainted with the coast of France
from Dieppe to Bordeaux; and a main part of his duty as Engineer
to the Board of Northern Lights was one round of dangerous and
laborious travel.
In 1786, when Thomas Smith first received the appointment, the
extended and formidable coast of Scotland was lighted at a single
point—the Isle of May, in the jaws of the Firth of Forth,
where, on a tower already a hundred and fifty years old, an open
coal-fire blazed in an iron chauffer.  The whole
archipelago, thus nightly plunged in darkness, was shunned by
sea-going vessels, and the favourite courses were north about
Shetland and west about St. Kilda.  When the Board met, four
new lights formed the extent of their intentions—Kinnaird
Head, in Aberdeenshire, at the eastern elbow of the coast; North
Ronaldsay, in Orkney, to keep the north and guide ships passing
to the south’ard of Shetland; Island Glass, on Harris, to
mark the inner shore of the Hebrides and illuminate the
navigation of the Minch; and the Mull of Kintyre.  These
works were to be attempted against obstacles, material and
financial, that might have staggered the most bold.  Smith
had no ship at his command till 1791; the roads in those
outlandish quarters where his business lay were scarce passable
when they existed, and the tower on the Mull of Kintyre stood
eleven months unlighted while the apparatus toiled and foundered
by the way among rocks and mosses.  Not only had towers to
be built and apparatus transplanted; the supply of oil must be
maintained, and the men fed, in the same inaccessible and distant
scenes; a whole service, with its routine and hierarchy, had to
be called out of nothing; and a new trade (that of lightkeeper)
to be taught, recruited, and organised.  The funds of the
Board were at the first laughably inadequate.  They embarked
on their career on a loan of twelve hundred pounds, and their
income in 1789, after relief by a fresh Act of Parliament,
amounted to less than three hundred.  It must be supposed
that the thoughts of Thomas Smith, in these early years, were
sometimes coloured with despair; and since he built and lighted
one tower after another, and created and bequeathed to his
successors the elements of an excellent administration, it may be
conceded that he was not after all an unfortunate choice for a
first engineer.
War added fresh complications.  In 1794 Smith came
‘very near to be taken’ by a French squadron. 
In 1813 Robert Stevenson was cruising about the neighbourhood of
Cape Wrath in the immediate fear of Commodore Rogers.  The
men, and especially the sailors, of the lighthouse service must
be protected by a medal and ticket from the brutal activity of
the press-gang.  And the zeal of volunteer patriots was at
times embarrassing.
‘I set off on foot,’ writes my
grandfather, ‘for Marazion, a town at the head of
Mount’s Bay, where I was in hopes of getting a boat to
freight.  I had just got that length, and was making the
necessary inquiry, when a young man, accompanied by several
idle-looking fellows, came up to me, and in a hasty tone said,
“Sir, in the king’s name I seize your person and
papers.”  To which I replied that I should be glad to
see his authority, and know the reason of an address so
abrupt.  He told me the want of time prevented his taking
regular steps, but that it would be necessary for me to return to
Penzance, as I was suspected of being a French spy.  I
proposed to submit my papers to the nearest Justice of Peace, who
was immediately applied to, and came to the inn where I
was.  He seemed to be greatly agitated, and quite at a loss
how to proceed.  The complaint preferred against me was
“that I had examined the Longships Lighthouse with the most
minute attention, and was no less particular in my inquiries at
the keepers of the lighthouse regarding the sunk rocks lying off
the Land’s End, with the sets of the currents and tides
along the coast: that I seemed particularly to regret the
situation of the rocks called the Seven Stones, and the loss of a
beacon which the Trinity Board had caused to be fixed on the Wolf
Rock; that I had taken notes of the bearings of several sunk
rocks, and a drawing of the lighthouse, and of Cape
Cornwall.  Further, that I had refused the honour of Lord
Edgecombe’s invitation to dinner, offering as an apology
that I had some particular business on hand.”’

My grandfather produced in answer his credentials and letter
of credit; but the justice, after perusing them, ‘very
gravely observed that they were “musty bits of
paper,”’ and proposed to maintain the arrest. 
Some more enlightened magistrates at Penzance relieved him of
suspicion and left him at liberty to pursue his
journey,—‘which I did with so much eagerness,’
he adds, ‘that I gave the two coal lights on the Lizard
only a very transient look.’
Lighthouse operations in Scotland differed essentially in
character from those in England.  The English coast is in
comparison a habitable, homely place, well supplied with towns;
the Scottish presents hundreds of miles of savage islands and
desolate moors.  The Parliamentary committee of 1834,
profoundly ignorant of this distinction, insisted with my
grandfather that the work at the various stations should be let
out on contract ‘in the neighbourhood,’ where sheep
and deer, and gulls and cormorants, and a few ragged gillies,
p

of those fits some day. The

boy is half insane with hysteria and self-indulgence.”


“Well, sir,” answered Mrs. Medlock, “you’ll scarcely

believe your eyes when you see him. That plain sour-faced child that’s

almost as bad as himself has just bewitched him. How she’s done it

there’s no telling. The Lord knows she’s nothing to look at and you

scarcely ever hear her speak, but she did what none of us dare do. She just

flew at him like a little cat last night, and stamped her feet and ordered him

to stop screaming, and somehow she startled him so that he actually did stop,

and this afternoon—well just come up and see, sir. It’s past

crediting.”


The scene which Dr. Craven beheld when he entered his patient’s room was

indeed rather astonishing to him. As Mrs. Medlock opened the door he heard

laughing and chattering. Colin was on his sofa in his dressing-gown and he was

sitting up quite straight looking at a picture in one of the garden books and

talking to the plain child who at that moment could scarcely be called plain at

all because her face was so glowing with enjoyment.


“Those long spires of blue ones—we’ll have a lot of

those,” Colin was announcing. “They’re called

Del-phin-iums.”


“Dickon says they’re larkspurs made big and grand,” cried

Mistress Mary. “There are clumps there already.”


Then they saw Dr. Craven and stopped. Mary became quite still and Colin looked

fretful.


“I am sorry to hear you were ill last night, my boy,” Dr. Craven

said a trifle nervously. He was rather a nervous man.


“I’m better now—much better,” Colin answered, rather

like a Rajah. “I’m going out in my chair in a day or two if it is

fine. I want some fresh air.”


Dr. Craven sat down by him and felt his pulse and looked at him curiously.


“It must be a very fine day,” he said, “and you must be very

careful not to tire yourself.”


“Fresh air won’t tire me,” said the young Rajah.


As there had been occasions when this same young gentleman had shrieked aloud

with rage and had insisted that fresh air would give him cold and kill him, it

is not to be wondered at that his doctor felt somewhat startled.


“I thought you did not like fresh air,” he said.


“I don’t when I am by myself,” replied the Rajah; “but

my cousin is going out with me.”


“And the nurse, of course?” suggested Dr. Craven.


“No, I will not have the nurse,” so magnificently that Mary could

not help remembering how the young native Prince had looked with his diamonds

and emeralds and pearls stuck all over him and the great rubies on the small

dark hand he had waved to command his servants to approach with salaams and

receive his orders.


“My cousin knows how to take care of me. I am always better when she is

with me. She made me better last night. A very strong boy I know will push my

carriage.”


Dr. Craven felt rather alarmed. If this tiresome hysterical boy should chance

to get well he himself would lose all chance of inheriting Misselthwaite; but

he was not an unscrupulous man, though he was a weak one, and he did not intend

to let him run into actual danger.


“He must be a strong boy and a steady boy,” he said. “And I

must know something about him. Who is he? What is his name?”


“It’s Dickon,” Mary spoke up suddenly. She felt somehow that

everybody who knew the moor must know Dickon. And she was right, too. She saw

that in a moment Dr. Craven’s serious face relaxed into a relieved smile.


“Oh, Dickon,” he said. “If it is Dickon you will be safe

enough. He’s as strong as a moor pony, is Dickon.”


“And he’s trusty,” said Mary. “He’s th’

trustiest lad i’ Yorkshire.” She had been talking Yorkshire to

Colin and she forgot herself.


“Did Dickon teach you that?” asked Dr. Craven, laughing outright.


“I’m learning it as if it was French,” said Mary rather

coldly. “It’s like a native dialect in India. Very clever people

try to learn them. I like it and so does Colin.”


“Well, well,” he said. “If it amuses you perhaps it

won’t do you any harm. Did you take your bromide last night, Colin?”


“No,” Colin answered. “I wouldn’t take it at first and

after Mary made me quiet she talked me to sleep—in a low

voice—about the spring creeping into a garden.”


“That sounds soothing,” said Dr. Craven, more perplexed than ever

and glancing sideways at Mistress Mary sitting on her stool and looking down

silently at the carpet. “You are evidently better, but you must

remember—”


“I don’t want to remember,” interrupted the Rajah, appearing

again. “When I lie by myself and remember I begin to have pains

everywhere and I think of things that make me begin to scream because I hate

them so. If there was a doctor anywhere who could make you forget you were ill

instead of remembering it I would have him brought here.” And he waved a

thin hand which ought really to have been covered with royal signet rings made

of rubies. “It is because my cousin makes me forget that she makes me

better.”


Dr. Craven had never made such a short stay after a “tantrum”;

usually he was obliged to remain a very long time and do a great many things.

This afternoon he did not give any medicine or leave any new orders and he was

spared any disagreeable scenes. When he went downstairs he looked very

thoughtful and when he talked to Mrs. Medlock in the library she felt that he

was a much puzzled man.


“Well, sir,” she ventured, “could you have believed

it?”


“It is certainly a new state of affairs,” said the doctor.

“And there’s no denying it is better than the old one.”


“I believe Susan Sowerby’s right—I do that,” said Mrs.

Medlock. “I stopped in her cottage on my way to Thwaite yesterday and had

a bit of talk with her. And she says to me, ‘Well, Sarah Ann, she

mayn’t be a good child, an’ she mayn’t be a pretty one, but

she’s a child, an’ children needs children.’ We went to

school together, Susan Sowerby and me.”


“She’s the best sick nurse I know,” said Dr. Craven.

“When I find her in a cottage I know the chances are that I shall save my

patient.”


Mrs. Medlock smiled. She was fond of Susan Sowerby.


“She’s got a way with her, has Susan,” she went on quite

volubly. “I’ve been thinking all morning of one thing she said

yesterday. She says, ‘Once when I was givin’ th’ children a

bit of a preach after they’d been fightin’ I ses to ’em all,

“When I was at school my jography told as th’ world was shaped like

a orange an’ I found out before I was ten that th’ whole orange

doesn’t belong to nobody. No one owns more than his bit of a quarter

an’ there’s times it seems like there’s not enow quarters to

go round. But don’t you—none o’ you—think as you own

th’ whole orange or you’ll find out you’re mistaken,

an’ you won’t find it out without hard knocks.” ‘What

children learns from children,’ she says, ‘is that there’s no

sense in grabbin’ at th’ whole orange—peel an’ all. If

you do you’ll likely not get even th’ pips, an’ them’s

too bitter to eat.’”


“She’s a shrewd woman,” said Dr. Craven, putting on his coat.


“Well, she’s got a way of saying things,” ended Mrs. Medlock,

much pleased. “Sometimes I’ve said to her, ‘Eh! Susan, if you

was a different woman an’ didn’t talk such broad Yorkshire

I’ve seen the times when I should have said you was clever.’”


That night Colin slept without once awakening and when he opened his eyes in

the morning he lay still and smiled without knowing it—smiled because he

felt so curiously comfortable. It was actually nice to be awake, and he turned

over and stretched his limbs luxuriously. He felt as if tight strings which had

held him had loosened themselves and let him go. He did not know that Dr.

Craven would have said that his nerves had relaxed and rested themselves.

Instead of lying and staring at the wall and wishing he had not awakened, his

mind was full of the plans he and Mary had made yesterday, of pictures of the

garden and of Dickon and his wild creatures. It was so nice to have things to

think about. And he had not been awake more than ten minutes when he heard feet

running along the corridor and Mary was at the door. The next minute she was in

the room and had run across to his bed, bringing with her a waft of fresh air

full of the scent of the morning.


“You’ve been out! You’ve been out! There’s that nice

smell of leaves!” he cried.


She had been running and her hair was loose and blown and she was bright with

the air and pink-cheeked, though he could not see it.


“It’s so beautiful!” she said, a little breathless with her

speed. “You never saw anything so beautiful! It has come! I

thought it had come that other morning, but it was only coming. It is here now!

It has come, the Spring! Dickon says so!”


“Has it?” cried Colin, and though he really knew nothing about it

he felt his heart beat. He actually sat up in bed.


“Open the window!” he added, laughing half with joyful excitement

and half at his own fancy. “Perhaps we may hear golden trumpets!”


And though he laughed, Mary was at the window in a moment and in a moment more

it was opened wide and freshness and softness and scents and birds’ songs

were pouring through.


“That’s fresh air,” she said. “Lie on your back and

draw in long breaths of it. That’s what Dickon does when he’s lying

on the moor. He says he feels it in his veins and it makes him strong and he

feels as if he could live forever and ever. Breathe it and breathe it.”


She was only repeating what Dickon had told her, but she caught Colin’s

fancy.


“’Forever and ever’! Does it make him feel like that?”

he said, and he did as she told him, drawing in long deep breaths over and over

again until he felt that something quite new and delightful was happening to

him.


Mary was at his bedside again.


“Things are crowding up out of the earth,” she ran on in a hurry.

“And there are flowers uncurling and buds on everything and the green

veil has covered nearly all the gray and the birds are in such a hurry about

their nests for fear they may be too late that some of them are even fighting

for places in the secret garden. And the rose-bushes look as wick as wick can

be, and there are primroses in the lanes and woods, and the seeds we planted

are up, and Dickon has brought the fox and the crow and the squirrels and a

new-born lamb.”


And then she paused for breath. The new-born lamb Dickon had found three days

before lying by its dead mother among the gorse bushes on the moor. It was not

the first motherless lamb he had found and he knew what to do with it. He had

taken it to the cottage wrapped in his jacket and he had let it lie near the

fire and had fed it with warm milk. It was a soft thing with a darling silly

baby face and legs rather long for its body. Dickon had carried it over the

moor in his arms and its feeding bottle was in his pocket with a squirrel, and

when Mary had sat under a tree with its limp warmness huddled on her lap she

had felt as if she were too full of strange joy to speak. A lamb—a lamb!

A living lamb who lay on your lap like a baby!


She was describing it with great joy and Colin was listening and drawing in

long breaths of air when the nurse entered. She started a little at the sight

of the open window. She had sat stifling in the room many a warm day because

her patient was sure that open windows gave people cold.


“Are you sure you are not chilly, Master Colin?” she inquired.


“No,” was the answer. “I am breathing long breaths of fresh

air. It makes you strong. I am going to get up to the sofa for breakfast. My

cousin will have breakfast with me.”


The nurse went away, concealing a smile, to give the order for two breakfasts.

She found the servants’ hall a more amusing place than the

invalid’s chamber and just now everybody wanted to hear the news from

upstairs. There was a great deal of joking about the unpopular young recluse

who, as the cook said, “had found his master, and good for him.”

The servants’ hall had been very tired of the tantrums, and the butler,

who was a man with a family, had more than once expressed his opinion that the

invalid would be all the better “for a good hiding.”


When Colin was on his sofa and the breakfast for two was put upon the table he

made an announcement to the nurse in his most Rajah-like manner.


“A boy, and a fox, and a crow, and two squirrels, and a new-born lamb,

are coming to see me this morning. I want them brought upstairs as soon as they

come,” he said. “You are not to begin playing with the animals in

the servants’ hall and keep them there. I want them here.”


The nurse gave a slight gasp and tried to conceal it with a cough.


“Yes, sir,” she answered.


“I’ll tell you what you can do,” added Colin, waving his

hand. “You can tell Martha to bring them here. The boy is Martha’s

brother. His name is Dickon and he is an animal charmer.”


“I hope the animals won’t bite, Master Colin,” said the

nurse.


“I told you he was a charmer,” said Colin austerely.

“Charmers’ animals never bite.”


“There are snake-charmers in India,” said Mary. “And they can

put their snakes’ heads in their mouths.”


“Goodness!” shuddered the nurse.


They ate their breakfast with the morning air pouring in upon them.

Colin’s breakfast was a very good one and Mary watched him with serious

interest.


“You will begin to get fatter just as I did,” she said. “I

never wanted my breakfast when I was in India and now I always want it.”


“I wanted mine this morning,” said Colin. “Perhaps it was the

fresh air. When do you think Dickon will come?”


He was not long in coming. In about ten minutes Mary held up her hand.


“Listen!” she said. “Did you hear a caw?”


Colin listened and heard it, the oddest sound in the world to hear inside a

house, a hoarse “caw-caw.”


“Yes,” he answered.


“That’s Soot,” said Mary. “Listen again. Do you hear a

bleat—a tiny one?”


“Oh, yes!” cried Colin, quite flushing.


“That’s the new-born lamb,” said Mary. “He’s

coming.”


Dickon’s moorland boots were thick and clumsy and though he tried to walk

quietly they made a clumping sound as he walked through the long corridors.

Mary and Colin heard him marching—marching, until he passed through the

tapestry door on to the soft carpet of Colin’s own passage.


“If you please, sir,” announced Martha, opening the door, “if

you please, sir, here’s Dickon an’ his creatures.”


Dickon came in smiling his nicest wide smile. The new-born lamb was in his arms

and the little red fox trotted by his side. Nut sat on his left shoulder and

Soot on his right and Shell’s head and paws peeped out of his coat

pocket.


Colin slowly sat up and stared and stared—as he had stared when he first

saw Mary; but this was a stare of wonder and delight. The truth was that in

spite of all he had heard he had not in the least understood what this boy

would be like and that his fox and his crow and his squirrels and his lamb were

so near to him and his friendliness that they seemed almost to be part of

himself. Colin had never talked to a boy in his life and he was so overwhelmed

by his own pleasure and curiosity that he did not even think of speaking.


But Dickon did not feel the least shy or awkward. He had not felt embarrassed

because the crow had not known his language and had only stared and had not

spoken to him the first time they met. Creatures were always like that until

they found out about you. He walked over to Colin’s sofa and put the

new-born lamb quietly on his lap, and immediately the little creature turned to

the warm velvet dressing-gown and began to nuzzle and nuzzle into its folds and

butt its tight-curled head with soft impatience against his side. Of course no

boy could have helped speaking then.


“What is it doing?” cried Colin. “What does it want?”


“It wants its mother,” said Dickon, smiling more and more. “I

brought it to thee a bit hungry because I knowed tha’d like to see it

feed.”


He knelt down by the sofa and took a feeding-bottle from his pocket.


“Come on, little ’un,” he said, turning the small woolly

white head with a gentle brown hand. “This is what tha’s after.

Tha’ll get more out o’ this than tha’ will out o’ silk

velvet coats. There now,” and he pushed the rubber tip of the bottle into

the nuzzling mouth and the lamb began to suck it with ravenous ecstasy.


After that there was no wondering what to say. By the time the lamb fell asleep

questions poured forth and Dickon answered them all. He told them how he had

found the lamb just as the sun was rising three mornings ago. He had been

standing on the moor listening to a skylark and watching him swing higher and

higher into the sky until he was only a speck in the heights of blue.


“I’d almost lost him but for his song an’ I was

wonderin’ how a chap could hear it when it seemed as if he’d get

out o’ th’ world in a minute—an’ just then I heard

somethin’ else far off among th’ gorse bushes. It was a weak

bleatin’ an’ I knowed it was a new lamb as was hungry an’ I

knowed it wouldn’t be hungry if it hadn’t lost its mother somehow,

so I set off searchin’. Eh! I did have a look for it. I went in an’

out among th’ gorse bushes an’ round an’ round an’ I

always seemed to take th’ wrong turnin’. But at last I seed a bit

o’ white by a rock on top o’ th’ moor an’ I climbed up

an’ found th’ little ’un half dead wi’ cold an’

clemmin’.”


While he talked, Soot flew solemnly in and out of the open window and cawed

remarks about the scenery while Nut and Shell made excursions into the big

trees outside and ran up and down trunks and explored branches. Captain curled

up near Dickon, who sat on the hearth-rug from preference.


They looked at the pictures in the gardening books and Dickon knew all the

flowers by their country names and knew exactly which ones were already growing

in the secret garden.


“I couldna’ say that there name,” he said, pointing to one

under which was written “Aquilegia,” “but us calls that a

columbine, an’ that there one it’s a snapdragon and they both grow

wild in hedges, but these is garden ones an’ they’re bigger

an’ grander. There’s some big clumps o’ columbine in

th’ garden. They’ll look like a bed o’ blue an’ white

butterflies flutterin’ when they’re out.”


“I’m going to see them,” cried Colin. “I am going to

see them!”


“Aye, that tha’ mun,” said Mary quite seriously.

“An’ tha’ munnot lose no time about it.”


CHAPTER XX.

“I SHALL LIVE FOREVER—AND EVER—AND EVER!”


But they were obliged to wait more than a week because first there came some

very windy days and then Colin was threatened with a cold, which two things

happening one after the other would no doubt have thrown him into a rage but

that there was so much careful and mysterious planning to do and almost every

day Dickon came in, if only for a few minutes, to talk about what was happening

on the moor and in the lanes and hedges and on the borders of streams. The

things he had to tell about otters’ and badgers’ and

water-rats’ houses, not to mention birds’ nests and field-mice and

their burrows, were enough to make you almost tremble with excitement when you

heard all the intimate details from an animal charmer and realized with what

thrilling eagerness and anx

r.  What I needed was a pick-me-up, a bracer.  Trust John

Barleycorn, once he has broken down a man's defences! So it was a drink

before breakfast to put me right for breakfast—the old poison of the

snake that has bitten one! Another custom begun at this time was that of

the pitcher of water by the bedside to furnish relief to my scorched and

sizzling membranes.


I achieved a condition in which my body was never free from alcohol.  Nor

did I permit myself to be away from alcohol.  If I travelled to

out-of-the-way places, I declined to run the risk of finding them dry.  I

took a quart, or several quarts, along in my grip.  In the past I had

been amazed by other men guilty of this practice.  Now I did it myself

unblushingly.  And when I got out with the fellows, I cast all rules by

the board.  I drank when they drank, what they drank, and in the same way

they drank.


I was carrying a beautiful alcoholic conflagration around with me.  The

thing fed on its own heat and flamed the fiercer.  There was no time, in

all my waking time, that I didn't want a drink.  I began to anticipate

the completion of my daily thousand words by taking a drink when only

five hundred words were written.  It was not long until I prefaced the

beginning of the thousand words with a drink.


The gravity of this I realised too well.  I made new rules.  Resolutely I

would refrain from drinking until my work was done.  But a new and most

diabolical complication arose.  The work refused to be done without

drinking.  It just couldn't be done.  I had to drink in order to do it.

I was beginning to fight now.  I had the craving at last, and it was

mastering me.  I would sit at my desk and dally with pad and pen, but

words refused to flow.  My brain could not think the proper thoughts

because continually it was obsessed with the one thought that across the

room in the liquor cabinet stood John Barleycorn.  When, in despair, I

took my drink, at once my brain loosened up and began to roll off the

thousand words.


In my town house, in Oakland, I finished the stock of liquor and wilfully

refused to purchase more.  It was no use, because, unfortunately, there

remained in the bottom of the liquor cabinet a case of beer.  In vain I

tried to write.  Now beer is a poor substitute for strong waters:

besides, I didn't like beer, yet all I could think of was that beer so

singularly accessible in the bottom of the cabinet.  Not until I had

drunk a pint of it did the words begin to reel off, and the thousand were

reeled off to the tune of numerous pints.  The worst of it was that the

beer caused me severe heart-burn; but despite the discomfort I soon

finished off the case.


The liquor cabinet was now bare.  I did not replenish it.  By truly

heroic perseverance I finally forced myself to write the daily thousand

words without the spur of John Barleycorn.  But all the time I wrote I

was keenly aware of the craving for a drink.  And as soon as the

morning's work was done, I was out of the house and away down-town to get

my first drink.  Merciful goodness!—if John Barleycorn could get such

sway over me, a non-alcoholic, what must be the sufferings of the true

alcoholic, battling against the organic demands of his chemistry while

those closest to him sympathise little, understand less, and despise and

deride him!


CHAPTER XXXV


But the freight has to be paid.  John Barleycorn began to collect, and he

collected not so much from the body as from the mind.  The old long

sickness, which had been purely an intellectual sickness, recrudesced.

The old ghosts, long laid, lifted their heads again.  But they were

different and more deadly ghosts.  The old ghosts, intellectual in their

inception, had been laid by a sane and normal logic.  But now they were

raised by the White Logic of John Barleycorn, and John Barleycorn never

lays the ghosts of his raising.  For this sickness of pessimism, caused

by drink, one must drink further in quest of the anodyne that John

Barleycorn promises but never delivers.


How to describe this White Logic to those who have never experienced it!

It is perhaps better first to state how impossible such a description is.

Take Hasheesh Land, for instance, the land of enormous extensions of time

and space.  In past years I have made two memorable journeys into that

far land.  My adventures there are seared in sharpest detail on my brain.

Yet I have tried vainly, with endless words, to describe any tiny

particular phase to persons who have not travelled there.


I use all the hyperbole of metaphor, and tell what centuries of time and

profounds of unthinkable agony and horror can obtain in each interval of

all the intervals between the notes of a quick jig played quickly on the

piano.  I talk for an hour, elaborating that one phase of Hasheesh Land,

and at the end I have told them nothing.  And when I cannot tell them

this one thing of all the vastness of terrible and wonderful things, I

know I have failed to give them the slightest concept of Hasheesh Land.


But let me talk with some other traveller in that weird region, and at

once am I understood.  A phrase, a word, conveys instantly to his mind

what hours of words and phrases could not convey to the mind of the

non-traveller.  So it is with John Barleycorn's realm where the White

Logic reigns.  To those untravelled there, the traveller's account must

always seem unintelligible and fantastic.  At the best, I may only beg of

the untravelled ones to strive to take on faith the narrative I shall

relate.


For there are fatal intuitions of truth that reside in alcohol.  Philip

sober vouches for Philip drunk in this matter.  There seem to be various

orders of truth in this world.  Some sorts of truth are truer than

others.  Some sorts of truth are lies, and these sorts are the very ones

that have the greatest use-value to life that desires to realise and

live.  At once, O untravelled reader, you see how lunatic and blasphemous

is the realm I am trying to describe to you in the language of John

Barleycorn's tribe.  It is not the language of your tribe, all of whose

members resolutely shun the roads that lead to death and tread only the

roads that lead to life.  For there are roads and roads, and of truth

there are orders and orders.  But have patience.  At least, through what

seems no more than verbal yammerings, you may, perchance, glimpse faint

far vistas of other lands and tribes.


Alcohol tells truth, but its truth is not normal.  What is normal is

healthful.  What is healthful tends toward life.  Normal truth is a

different order, and a lesser order, of truth.  Take a dray horse.

Through all the vicissitudes of its life, from first to last, somehow, in

unguessably dim ways, it must believe that life is good; that the

drudgery in harness is good; that death, no matter how

blind-instinctively apprehended, is a dread giant; that life is

beneficent and worth while; that, in the end, with fading life, it will

not be knocked about and beaten and urged beyond its sprained and

spavined best; that old age, even, is decent, dignified, and valuable,

though old age means a ribby scare-crow in a hawker's cart, stumbling a

step to every blow, stumbling dizzily on through merciless servitude and

slow disintegration to the end—the end, the apportionment of its parts

(of its subtle flesh, its pink and springy bone, its juices and ferments,

and all the sensateness that informed it) to the chicken farm, the

hide-house, the glue-rendering works, and the bone-meal fertiliser

factory.  To the last stumble of its stumbling end this dray horse must

abide by the mandates of the lesser truth that is the truth of life and

that makes life possible to persist.


This dray horse, like all other horses, like all other animals, including

man, is life-blinded and sense-struck.  It will live, no matter what the

price.  The game of life is good, though all of life may be hurt, and

though all lives lose the game in the end.  This is the order of truth

that obtains, not for the universe, but for the live things in it if they

for a little space will endure ere they pass.  This order of truth, no

matter how erroneous it may be, is the sane and normal order of truth,

the rational order of truth that life must believe in order to live.


To man, alone among the animals, has been given the awful privilege of

reason.  Man, with his brain, can penetrate the intoxicating show of

things and look upon the universe brazen with indifference toward him and

his dreams.  He can do this, but it is not well for him to do it.  To

live, and live abundantly, to sting with life, to be alive (which is to

be what he is), it is good that man be life-blinded and sense-struck.

What is good is true.  And this is the order of truth, lesser though it

be, that man must know and guide his actions by with unswerving certitude

that it is absolute truth and that in the universe no other order of

truth can obtain.  It is good that man should accept at face value the

cheats of sense and snares of flesh and through the fogs of sentiency

pursue the lures and lies of passion.  It is good that he shall see

neither shadows nor futilities, nor be appalled by his lusts and

rapacities.


And man does this.  Countless men have glimpsed that other and truer

order of truth and recoiled from it.  Countless men have passed through

the long sickness and lived to tell of it and deliberately to forget it

to the end of their days.  They lived.  They realised life, for life is

what they were.  They did right.


And now comes John Barleycorn with the curse he lays upon the imaginative

man who is lusty with life and desire to live.  John Barleycorn sends his

White Logic, the argent messenger of truth beyond truth, the antithesis

of life, cruel and bleak as interstellar space, pulseless and frozen as

absolute zero, dazzling with the frost of irrefragable logic and

unforgettable fact.  John Barleycorn will not let the dreamer dream, the

liver live.  He destroys birth and death, and dissipates to mist the

paradox of being, until his victim cries out, as in "The City of Dreadful

Night": "Our life's a cheat, our death a black abyss." And the feet of

the victim of such dreadful intimacy take hold of the way of death.


CHAPTER XXXVI


Back to personal experiences and the effects in the past of John

Barleycorn's White Logic on me.  On my lovely ranch in the Valley of the

Moon, brain-soaked with many months of alcohol, I am oppressed by the

cosmic sadness that has always been the heritage of man.  In vain do I

ask myself why I should be sad.  My nights are warm.  My roof does not

leak.  I have food galore for all the caprices of appetite.  Every

creature comfort is mine.  In my body are no aches nor pains.  The good

old flesh-machine is running smoothly on.  Neither brain nor muscle is

overworked.  I have land, money, power, recognition from the world, a

consciousness that I do my meed of good in serving others, a mate whom I

love, children that are of my own fond flesh.  I have done, and am doing,

what a good citizen of the world should do.  I have built houses, many

houses, and tilled many a hundred acres.  And as for trees, have I not

planted a hundred thousand? Everywhere, from any window of my house, I

can gaze forth upon these trees of my planting, standing valiantly erect

and aspiring toward the sun.


My life has indeed fallen in pleasant places.  Not a hundred men in a

million have been so lucky as I.  Yet, with all this vast good fortune,

am I sad.  And I am sad because John Barleycorn is with me.  And John

Barleycorn is with me because I was born in what future ages will call

the dark ages before the ages of rational civilisation.  John Barleycorn

is with me because in all the unwitting days of my youth John Barleycorn

was accessible, calling to me and inviting me on every corner and on

every street between the corners.  The pseudo-civilisation into which I

was born permitted everywhere licensed shops for the sale of soul-poison.

The system of life was so organised that I (and millions like me) was

lured and drawn and driven to the poison shops.


Wander with me through one mood of the myriad moods of sadness into which

one is plunged by John Barleycorn.  I ride out over my beautiful ranch.

Between my legs is a beautiful horse.  The air is wine.  The grapes on a

score of rolling hills are red with autumn flame.  Across Sonoma Mountain

wisps of sea fog are stealing.  The afternoon sun smoulders in the drowsy

sky.  I have everything to make me glad I am alive.  I am filled with

dreams and mysteries.  I am all sun and air and sparkle.  I am vitalised,

organic.  I move, I have the power of movement, I command movement of the

live thing I bestride.  I am possessed with the pomps of being, and know

proud passions and inspirations.  I have ten thousand august

connotations.  I am a king in the kingdom of sense, and trample the face

of the uncomplaining dust....


And yet, with jaundiced eye I gaze upon all the beauty and wonder about

me, and with jaundiced brain consider the pitiful figure I cut in this

world that endured so long without me and that will again endure without

me.  I remember the men who broke their hearts and their backs over this

stubborn soil that now belongs to me.  As if anything imperishable could

belong to the perishable!  These men passed.  I, too, shall pass.  These

men toiled, and cleared, and planted, gazed with aching eyes, while they

rested their labour-stiffened bodies on these same sunrises and sunsets,

at the autumn glory of the grape, and at the fog-wisps stealing across

the mountain.  And they are gone.  And I know that I, too, shall some

day, and soon, be gone.


Gone? I am going now.  In my jaw are cunning artifices of the dentists

which replace the parts of me already gone.  Never again will I have the

thumbs of my youth.  Old fights and wrestlings have injured them

irreparably.  That punch on the head of a man whose very name is

forgotten settled this thumb finally and for ever.  A slip-grip at

catch-as-catch-can did for the other.  My lean runner's stomach has

passed into the limbo of memory.  The joints of the legs that bear me up

are not so adequate as they once were, when, in wild nights and days of

toil and frolic, I strained and snapped and ruptured them.  Never again

can I swing dizzily aloft and trust all the proud quick that is I to a

single rope-clutch in the driving blackness of storm.  Never again can I

run with the sled-dogs along the endless miles of Arctic trail.


I am aware that within this disintegrating body which has been dying

since I was born I carry a skeleton, that under the rind of flesh which

is called my face is a bony, noseless death's head.  All of which does

not shudder me.  To be afraid is to be healthy.  Fear of death makes for

life.  But the curse of the White Logic is that it does not make one

afraid.  The world-sickness of the White Logic makes one grin jocosely

into the face of the Noseless One and to sneer at all the phantasmagoria

of living.


I look about me as I ride and on every hand I see the merciless and

infinite waste of natural selection.  The White Logic insists upon

opening the long-closed books, and by paragraph and chapter states the

beauty and wonder I behold in terms of futility and dust.  About me is

murmur and hum, and I know it for the gnat-swarm of the living, piping

for a little space its thin plaint of troubled air.


I return across the ranch.  Twilight is on, and the hunting animals are

out.  I watch the piteous tragic play of life feeding on life.  Here is

no morality.  Only in man is morality, and man created it—a code of

action that makes toward living and that is of the lesser order of truth.

Yet all this I knew before, in the weary days of my long sickness.  These

were the greater truths that I so successfully schooled myself to forget;

the truths that were so serious that I refused to take them seriously,

and played with gently, oh! so gently, as sleeping dogs at the back of

consciousness which I did not care to waken.  I did but stir them, and

let them lie.  I was too wise, too wicked wise, to wake them.  But now

White Logic willy-nilly wakes them for me, for White Logic, most valiant,

is unafraid of all the monsters of the earthly dream.


"Let the doctors of all the schools condemn me," White Logic whispers as

I ride along.  "What of it? I am truth.  You know it.  You cannot combat

me.  They say I make for death.  What of it? It is truth.  Life lies in

order to live.  Life is a perpetual lie-telling process.  Life is a mad

dance in the domain of flux, wherein appearances in mighty tides ebb and

flow, chained to the wheels of moons beyond our ken.  Appearances are

ghosts.  Life is ghost land, where appearances change, transfuse,

permeate each the other and all the others, that are, that are not, that

always flicker, fade, and pass, only to come again as new appearances, as

other appearances.  You are such an appearance, composed of countless

appearances out of the past.  All an appearance can know is mirage.  You

know mirages of desire.  These very mirages are the unthinkable and

incalculable congeries of appearances that crowd in upon you and form you

out of the past, and that sweep you on into dissemination into other

unthinkable and incalculable congeries of appearances to people the ghost

land of the future.  Life is apparitional, and passes.  You are an

apparition.  Through all the apparitions that preceded you and that

compose the parts of you, you rose gibbering from the evolutionary mire,

and gibbering you will pass on, interfusing, permeating the procession of

apparitions that will succeed you."


And of course it is all unanswerable, and as I ride along through the

evening shadows I sneer at that Great Fetish which Comte called the

world.  And I remember what another pessimist of sentiency has uttered:

"Transient are all.  They, being born, must die, and, being dead, are

glad to be at rest."


But here through the dusk comes one who is not glad to be at rest.  He is

a workman on the ranch, an old man, an immigrant Italian.  He takes his

hat off to me in all servility, because, forsooth, I am to him a lord of

life.  I am food to him, and shelter, and existence.  He has toiled like

a beast all his days, and lived less comfortably than my horses in their

deep-strawed stalls.  He is labour-crippled.  He shambles as he walks.

One shoulder is twisted higher than the other.  His hands are gnarled

claws, repulsive, horrible.  As an apparition he is a pretty miserable

specimen.  His brain is as stupid as his body is ugly.


"His brain is so stupid that he does not know he is an apparition," the

White Logic chuckles to me.  "He is sense-drunk.  He is the slave of the

dream of life.  His brain is filled with superrational sanctions and

obsessions.  He believes in a transcendent over-world.  He has listened

to the vagaries of the prophets, who have given to him the sumptuous

bubble of Paradise.  He feels inarticulate self-affinities, with

self-conjured non-realities.  He sees penumbral visions of himself

titubating fantastically through days and nights of spac

und his feelings, and he had

now no sense of escaping or coming off easily. He did not thank his companion

even with a glance. “My eyes are open, though,” he said, “so

far as that you have practically told me that your family and your friends will

turn up their noses at me. I have never thought much about the reasons that

make it proper for people to turn up their noses, and so I can only decide the

question off-hand. Looking at it in that way I can’t see anything in it.

I simply think, if you want to know, that I’m as good as the best. Who

the best are, I don’t pretend to say. I have never thought much about

that either. To tell the truth, I have always had rather a good opinion of

myself; a man who is successful can’t help it. But I will admit that I

was conceited. What I don’t say yes to is that I don’t stand

high—as high as anyone else. This is a line of speculation I should not

have chosen, but you must remember you began it yourself. I should never have

dreamed that I was on the defensive, or that I had to justify myself; but if

your people will have it so, I will do my best.”


“But you offered, a while ago, to make your court as we say, to my mother

and my brother.”


“Damn it!” cried Newman, “I want to be polite.”


“Good!” rejoined Bellegarde; “this will go far, it will be

very entertaining. Excuse my speaking of it in that cold-blooded fashion, but

the matter must, of necessity, be for me something of a spectacle. It’s

positively exciting. But apart from that I sympathize with you, and I shall be

actor, so far as I can, as well as spectator. You are a capital fellow; I

believe in you and I back you. The simple fact that you appreciate my sister

will serve as the proof I was asking for. All men are equal—especially

men of taste!”


“Do you think,” asked Newman presently, “that Madame de

Cintré is determined not to marry?”


“That is my impression. But that is not against you; it’s for you

to make her change her mind.”


“I am afraid it will be hard,” said Newman, gravely.


“I don’t think it will be easy. In a general way I don’t see

why a widow should ever marry again. She has gained the benefits of

matrimony—freedom and consideration—and she has got rid of the

drawbacks. Why should she put her head into the noose again? Her usual motive

is ambition: if a man can offer her a great position, make her a princess or an

ambassadress she may think the compensation sufficient.”


“And—in that way—is Madame de Cintré ambitious?”


“Who knows?” said Bellegarde, with a profound shrug. “I

don’t pretend to say all that she is or all that she is not. I think she

might be touched by the prospect of becoming the wife of a great man. But in a

certain way, I believe, whatever she does will be the improbable.

Don’t be too confident, but don’t absolutely doubt. Your best

chance for success will be precisely in being, to her mind, unusual,

unexpected, original. Don’t try to be anyone else; be simply yourself,

out and out. Something or other can’t fail to come of it; I am very

curious to see what.”


“I am much obliged to you for your advice,” said Newman.

“And,” he added with a smile, “I am glad, for your sake, I am

going to be so amusing.”


“It will be more than amusing,” said Bellegarde; “it will be

inspiring. I look at it from my point of view, and you from yours. After all,

anything for a change! And only yesterday I was yawning so as to dislocate my

jaw, and declaring that there was nothing new under the sun! If it isn’t

new to see you come into the family as a suitor, I am very much mistaken. Let

me say that, my dear fellow; I won’t call it anything else, bad or good;

I will simply call it new.” And overcome with a sense of the

novelty thus foreshadowed, Valentin de Bellegarde threw himself into a deep

armchair before the fire, and, with a fixed, intense smile, seemed to read a

vision of it in the flame of the logs. After a while he looked up. “Go

ahead, my boy; you have my good wishes,” he said. “But it is really

a pity you don’t understand me, that you don’t know just what I am

doing.”


“Oh,” said Newman, laughing, “don’t do anything wrong.

Leave me to myself, rather, or defy me, out and out. I wouldn’t lay any

load on your conscience.”


Bellegarde sprang up again; he was evidently excited; there was a warmer spark

even than usual in his eye. “You never will understand—you never

will know,” he said; “and if you succeed, and I turn out to have

helped you, you will never be grateful, not as I shall deserve you should be.

You will be an excellent fellow always, but you will not be grateful. But it

doesn’t matter, for I shall get my own fun out of it.” And he broke

into an extravagant laugh. “You look puzzled,” he added; “you

look almost frightened.”


“It is a pity,” said Newman, “that I don’t

understand you. I shall lose some very good jokes.”


“I told you, you remember, that we were very strange people,”

Bellegarde went on. “I give you warning again. We are! My mother is

strange, my brother is strange, and I verily believe that I am stranger than

either. You will even find my sister a little strange. Old trees have crooked

branches, old houses have queer cracks, old races have odd secrets. Remember

that we are eight hundred years old!”


“Very good,” said Newman; “that’s the sort of thing I

came to Europe for. You come into my programme.”


“Touchez-là, then,” said Bellegarde, putting out his hand.

“It’s a bargain: I accept you; I espouse your cause. It’s

because I like you, in a great measure; but that is not the only reason!”

And he stood holding Newman’s hand and looking at him askance.


“What is the other one?”


“I am in the Opposition. I dislike someone else.”


“Your brother?” asked Newman, in his unmodulated voice.


Bellegarde laid his fingers upon his lips with a whispered hush!

“Old races have strange secrets!” he said. “Put yourself into

motion, come and see my sister, and be assured of my sympathy!” And on

this he took his leave.


Newman dropped into a chair before his fire, and sat a long time staring into

the blaze.


CHAPTER IX


He went to see Madame de Cintré the next day, and was informed by the servant

that she was at home. He passed as usual up the large, cold staircase and

through a spacious vestibule above, where the walls seemed all composed of

small door panels, touched with long-faded gilding; whence he was ushered into

the sitting-room in which he had already been received. It was empty, and the

servant told him that Madame la Comtesse would presently appear. He had time,

while he waited, to wonder whether Bellegarde had seen his sister since the

evening before, and whether in this case he had spoken to her of their talk. In

this case Madame de Cintré’s receiving him was an encouragement. He felt

a certain trepidation as he reflected that she might come in with the knowledge

of his supreme admiration and of the project he had built upon it in her eyes;

but the feeling was not disagreeable. Her face could wear no look that would

make it less beautiful, and he was sure beforehand that however she might take

the proposal he had in reserve, she would not take it in scorn or in irony. He

had a feeling that if she could only read the bottom of his heart and measure

the extent of his good will toward her, she would be entirely kind.


She came in at last, after so long an interval that he wondered whether she had

been hesitating. She smiled with her usual frankness, and held out her hand;

she looked at him straight with her soft and luminous eyes, and said, without a

tremor in her voice, that she was glad to see him and that she hoped he was

well. He found in her what he had found before—that faint perfume of a

personal shyness worn away by contact with the world, but the more perceptible

the more closely you approached her. This lingering diffidence seemed to give a

peculiar value to what was definite and assured in her manner; it made it seem

like an accomplishment, a beautiful talent, something that one might compare to

an exquisite touch in a pianist. It was, in fact, Madame de Cintré’s

“authority,” as they say of artists, that especially impressed and

fascinated Newman; he always came back to the feeling that when he should

complete himself by taking a wife, that was the way he should like his wife to

interpret him to the world. The only trouble, indeed, was that when the

instrument was so perfect it seemed to interpose too much between you and the

genius that used it. Madame de Cintré gave Newman the sense of an elaborate

education, of her having passed through mysterious ceremonies and processes of

culture in her youth, of her having been fashioned and made flexible to certain

exalted social needs. All this, as I have affirmed, made her seem rare and

precious—a very expensive article, as he would have said, and one which a

man with an ambition to have everything about him of the best would find it

highly agreeable to possess. But looking at the matter with an eye to private

felicity, Newman wondered where, in so exquisite a compound, nature and art

showed their dividing line. Where did the special intention separate from the

habit of good manners? Where did urbanity end and sincerity begin? Newman asked

himself these questions even while he stood ready to accept the admired object

in all its complexity; he felt that he could do so in profound security, and

examine its mechanism afterwards, at leisure.


“I am very glad to find you alone,” he said. “You know I have

never had such good luck before.”


“But you have seemed before very well contented with your luck,”

said Madame de Cintré. “You have sat and watched my visitors with an air

of quiet amusement. What have you thought of them?”


“Oh, I have thought the ladies were very elegant and very graceful, and

wonderfully quick at repartee. But what I have chiefly thought has been that

they only helped me to admire you.” This was not gallantry on

Newman’s part—an art in which he was quite unversed. It was simply

the instinct of the practical man, who had made up his mind what he wanted, and

was now beginning to take active steps to obtain it.


Madame de Cintré started slightly, and raised her eyebrows; she had evidently

not expected so fervid a compliment. “Oh, in that case,” she said

with a laugh, “your finding me alone is not good luck for me. I hope

someone will come in quickly.”


“I hope not,” said Newman. “I have something particular to

say to you. Have you seen your brother?”


“Yes, I saw him an hour ago.”


“Did he tell you that he had seen me last night?”


“He said so.”


“And did he tell you what we had talked about?”


Madame de Cintré hesitated a moment. As Newman asked these questions she had

grown a little pale, as if she regarded what was coming as necessary, but not

as agreeable. “Did you give him a message to me?” she asked.


“It was not exactly a message—I asked him to render me a

service.”


“The service was to sing your praises, was it not?” And she

accompanied this question with a little smile, as if to make it easier to

herself.


“Yes, that is what it really amounts to,” said Newman. “Did

he sing my praises?”


“He spoke very well of you. But when I know that it was by your special

request, of course I must take his eulogy with a grain of salt.”


“Oh, that makes no difference,” said Newman. “Your brother

would not have spoken well of me unless he believed what he was saying. He is

too honest for that.”


“Are you very deep?” said Madame de Cintré. “Are you trying

to please me by praising my brother? I confess it is a good way.”


“For me, any way that succeeds will be good. I will praise your brother

all day, if that will help me. He is a noble little fellow. He has made me

feel, in promising to do what he can to help me, that I can depend upon

him.”


“Don’t make too much of that,” said Madame de Cintré.

“He can help you very little.”


“Of course I must work my way myself. I know that very well; I only want

a chance to. In consenting to see me, after what he told you, you almost seem

to be giving me a chance.”


“I am seeing you,” said Madame de Cintré, slowly and gravely,

“because I promised my brother I would.”


“Blessings on your brother’s head!” cried Newman. “What

I told him last evening was this: that I admired you more than any woman I had

ever seen, and that I should like immensely to make you my wife.” He

uttered these words with great directness and firmness, and without any sense

of confusion. He was full of his idea, he had completely mastered it, and he

seemed to look down on Madame de Cintré, with all her gathered elegance, from

the height of his bracing good conscience. It is probable that this particular

tone and manner were the very best he could have hit upon. Yet the light, just

visibly forced smile with which his companion had listened to him died away,

and she sat looking at him with her lips parted and her face as solemn as a

tragic mask. There was evidently something very painful to her in the scene to

which he was subjecting her, and yet her impatience of it found no angry voice.

Newman wondered whether he was hurting her; he could not imagine why the

liberal devotion he meant to express should be disagreeable. He got up and

stood before her, leaning one hand on the chimney-piece. “I know I have

seen you very little to say this,” he said, “so little that it may

make what I say seem disrespectful. That is my misfortune! I could have said it

the first time I saw you. Really, I had seen you before; I had seen you in

imagination; you seemed almost an old friend. So what I say is not mere

gallantry and compliments and nonsense—I can’t talk that way, I

don’t know how, and I wouldn’t, to you, if I could. It’s as

serious as such words can be. I feel as if I knew you and knew what a

beautiful, admirable woman you are. I shall know better, perhaps, some day, but

I have a general notion now. You are just the woman I have been looking for,

except that you are far more perfect. I won’t make any protestations and

vows, but you can trust me. It is very soon, I know, to say all this; it is

almost offensive. But why not gain time if one can? And if you want time to

reflect—of course you do—the sooner you begin, the better for me. I

don’t know what you think of me; but there is no great mystery about me;

you see what I am. Your brother told me that my antecedents and occupations

were against me; that your family stands, somehow, on a higher level than I do.

That is an idea which of course I don’t understand and don’t

accept. But you don’t care anything about that. I can assure you that I

am a very solid fellow, and that if I give my mind to it I can arrange things

so that in a very few years I shall not need to waste time in explaining who I

am and what I am. You will decide for yourself whether you like me or not. What

there is you see before you. I honestly believe I have no hidden vices or nasty

tricks. I am kind, kind, kind! Everything that a man can give a woman I will

give you. I have a large fortune, a very large fortune; some day, if you will

allow me, I will go into details. If you want brilliancy, everything in the way

of brilliancy that money can give you, you shall have. And as regards anything

you may give up, don’t take for granted too much that its place cannot be

filled. Leave that to me; I’ll take care of you; I shall know what you

need. Energy and ingenuity can arrange everything. I’m a strong man!

There, I have said what I had on my heart! It was better to get it off. I am

very sorry if it’s disagreeable to you; but think how much better it is

that things should be clear. Don’t answer me now, if you don’t wish

it. Think about it, think about it as slowly as you please. Of course I

haven’t said, I can’t say, half I mean, especially about my

admiration for you. But take a favorable view of me; it will only be

just.”


During this speech, the longest that Newman had ever made, Madame de Cintré

kept her gaze fixed upon him, and it expanded at the last into a sort of

fascinated stare. When he ceased speaking she lowered her eyes and sat for some

moments looking down and straight before her. Then she slowly rose to her feet,

and a pair of exceptionally keen eyes would have perceived that she was

trembling a little in the movement. She still looked extremely serious.

“I am very much obliged to you for your offer,” she said. “It

seems very strange, but I am glad you spoke without waiting any longer. It is

better the subject should be dismissed. I appreciate all you say; you do me

great honor. But I have decided not to marry.”


“Oh, don’t say that!” cried Newman, in a tone absolutely

naïf from its pleading and caressing cadence. She had turned away, and

it made her stop a moment with her back to him. “Think better of that.

You are too young, too beautiful, too much made to be happy and to make others

happy. If you are afraid of losing your freedom, I can assure you that this

freedom here, this life you now lead, is a dreary bondage to what I will offer

you. You shall do things that I don’t think you have ever thought of. I

will take you anywhere in the wide world that you propose. Are you unhappy? You

give me a feeling that you are unhappy. You have no right to be, or to

be made so. Let me come in and put an end to it.”


Madame de Cintré stood there a moment longer, looking away from him. If she was

touched by the way he spoke, the thing was conceivable. His voice, always very

mild and interrogative, gradually became as soft and as tenderly argumentative

as if he had been talking to a much-loved child. He stood watching her, and she

presently turned round again, but this time she did not look at him, and she

spoke in a quietness in which there was a visible trace of effort.


“There are a great many reasons why I should not marry,” she said,

“more than I can explain to you. As for my happiness, I am very happy.

Your offer seems strange to me, for more reasons also than I can say. Of course

you have a perfect right to make it. But I cannot accept it—it is

impossible. Please never speak of this matter again. If you cannot promise me

this, I must ask you not to come back.”


“Why is it impossible?” Newman demanded. “You may think it

is, at first, without its really being so. I didn’t expect you to be

pleased at first, but I do believe that if you will think of it a good while,

you may be satisfied.”


“I don’t know you,” said Madame de Cintré. “Think how

little I know you.”


“Very little, of course, and therefore I don’t ask for your

ultimatum on the spot. I only ask you not to say no, and to let me hope. I will

wait as long as you desire. Meanwhile you can see more of me and know me

better, look at me as a possible husband—as a candidate—and make up

your mind.”


Something was going on, rapidly, in Madame de Cintré’s thoughts; she was

weighing a question there, beneath Newman’s eyes, weighing it and

deciding it. “From the moment I don’t very respectfully beg you to

leave the house and never return,” she said, “I listen to you, I

seem to give you hope. I have listened to you—against my judgment.

It is because you are eloquent. If I