Purpose: To describe unplanned cesarean birth as experienced by African American women.
Method: Descriptive phenomenology was used with interviews from seven women who experienced unplanned cesarean birth. Interviews of each woman's birth experience were transcribed and analyzed using Colaizzi's descriptive, phenomenological method.
Results: The findings were clustered into five themes: preparing for childbirth, mistrust, feeling rushed, being fearful, and sacrificing.
Clinical implications: The results from this study contribute to the understanding of psychosocial stressors that are associated with childbirth complicated by unplanned cesarean birth. This study lends evidence to our practice by providing information about how important anticipatory guidance is for expectant women because the possibility of cesarean birth in today's environment is not remote. Discussions about unplanned cesarean births should also be a part of this anticipatory guidance.
Fries, Kathleen S. "African American Women & Unplanned Cesarean Birth." MCN: The American Journal of Maternal Child Nursing. 35.2 (2010): 110-115.

Headed over to the O.co Coliseum for the Oakland Raiders vs the New Orleans Saints.
The big "story" we were supposed to focus on was all the law enforcement after the unfortunate events at the Raiders at Niners game last week.
Photographed warmups as per usual for the only chance to get Terrelle Pryor as he serves a 5-game suspension.
Amidst controversy, Pryor wisely found representation from NFL agent, big shot Drew Rosenhaus, a great guy to have in your corner as a professional athlete.
Who is supposedly the character Jerry McGuire is based on... crazy!!
Game started, and Saints Mark Ingram scored a touchdown on their first drive. I thought uh oh, this is going to be a long game.
But Raiders answered with a touchdown of their own by Derek Hagan.
This worked out great for me because I'm supposed to send images after the first offensive drives of each team, nice that I could have touchdown photos in my first set, in addition to quarterback shots.
Back in the game Janikowski scored an impressive 57 yard field goal. If that is the range of your kicker and you still can't win games, you're in trouble.
Saints did a lot of damage in the end zone, finishing the game 40-20. Back up quarterback Chase Daniel, celebrating after a touchdown and two point conversion.
Though he certainly won't be beating out Drew Brees.
It was exciting to see Cal Bear Cameron Jordan in the big leagues playing defensive end for the Saints.
And of course had to get some cheerleader shots.
Also ran into a high school friend Tony at the game (far right) who had some pretty sweet seats. Always funny to think I'm hearing my name being called and have it actually be for me!
If you are my mother, stop reading this post now... if you are not my mother, check out this crazy photo of Montez Billings trying to leap over the cameraman! haha, gotta be quick on your feet!

2 Joahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months in Jerusalem.
3 And the king of Egypt deposed him at Jerusalem, and fined the land a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.
4 And the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. And Neco took Joahaz his brother, and carried him to Egypt.
5 Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah his God.
7 Nebuchadnezzar also carried of the vessels of the house of Jehovah to Babylon, and put them in his temple at Babylon.
9 Jehoiachin was eight years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem: and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
10 And at the return of the year king Nebuchadnezzar sent, and brought him to Babylon, with the goodly vessels of the house of Jehovah, and made Zedekiah his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem.
12 and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah his God; he humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet [speaking] from the mouth of Jehovah.
13 And he also rebelled against king Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him swear by God: but he stiffened his neck, and hardened his heart against turning unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
14 Moreover all the chiefs of the priests, and the people, trespassed very greatly after all the abominations of the nations; and they polluted the house of Jehovah which he had hallowed in Jerusalem.
16 but they mocked the messengers of God, and despised his words, and scoffed at his prophets, until the wrath of Jehovah arose against his people, till there was no remedy.
17 Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chaldeans, who slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion upon young man or virgin, old man or hoary-headed: he gave them all into his hand.
18 And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, and the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king, and of his princes, all these he brought to Babylon.
21 to fulfil the word of Jehovah by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed its sabbaths: [for] as long as it lay desolate it kept sabbath, to fulfil threescore and ten years.
23 Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the earth hath Jehovah, the God of heaven, given me; and he hath charged me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whosoever there is among you of all his people, Jehovah his God be with him, and let him go up.

Growth Package, very unique kind of package in itself, gives you the perfect bunch of facilities essential for your growth in all aspects which enhances your lifestyle.
Corporate Training provides knowledge and skills to new entrants and to help them to perform their role and job well.
Corporate Training coaches you for more complex and higher level jobs.
Corporate Training induces new innovative ways and techniques of performing job.
To give you a global recognition, ELS Growth Package provides you 25% discount on purchase of Microsoft Office Specialist Vouchers of any of 2 Courses.
Why Microsoft Office Specialist Certifications?
Since 80% of the work day involves Microsoft Office, it’s imperative to understand the need of certification.
ELS Business Opportunity provides you the platform to live your life like most people can’t.
We offer Growth Package @ 749 INR only (Inclusive of all taxes).

TV and stage star Layton Williams has taken time out of his busy performance schedule to give a young York actor a mini masterclass.
Will Darwin, 20, who’s all set to play Paul in the Joseph Rowntree Theatre Company’s production of Kiss Me, Kate next month, travelled down to Sheffield to meet Layton.
He has just finished a month-long run as Paul in the Crucible’s own take on Cole Porter’s classic musical comedy.
“It was such a great opportunity,” said Will, who is currently auditioning for drama school in between Kiss Me, Kate rehearsals.
“When I arrived, the cast were rehearsing scenes because someone had fallen ill and they were slotting in understudies in case they couldn’t make it.
Layton began his theatre career in the title role of Billy Elliot in the West End.
He has since played Michael Jackson in Thriller Live, Angel in the 20th anniversary tour of Rent, Kylie in the BBC series Beautiful People and Stephen Carmichael in the BBC comedy Bad Education.
He is due to take on the biggest challenge of his career so far on January 28th when he steps into the six-inch heels of Jamie New, the 16-year-old drag queen star of the West End smash Everybody’s Talking About Jamie.
We had a chat about Paul and he said he sometimes found it hard to remember which order the words go in Too Darn Hot, which gave me some relief because I struggle with that too,’ said Will.
Their version of Kiss Me, Kate was amazing. Layton sang “Too Darn Hot” extremely well, especially as he was doing a complex dance routine at the same time. I don’t think I’ll be attempting that!
You could tell he was having fun and loved performing the song. I’ll try and take that forward and just try to bring out the same joy when I perform the song here in York.
Kiss Me, Kate is the fundraising show for Joseph Rowntree Theatre – find out more here.

We had three t-shirt design submissions. You can click on each design below to see it in a larger form and then vote for your favorite in the poll at the bottom of this entry.
I want to know who designed the first one. Amazing!
Why do the chr(#) Python statements create the word “AWESOMO” and not “AWESOME”?
I think it was Andrew Bennett.
I like the yellow shirt, but I think we should remove the “pray”.
If we do one besides the origional, could you change the font to something with a uniform character size?

The Institute of Preventive Medicine Environmental and Occupational Health - Prolepsis is a civil non for profit organization which was established in 1990 in Athens, Greece. With a strong belief in health being a fundamental right, Prolepsis has undertaken a leading role in the field of public health, by designing and implementing initiatives on various health issues and in different sectors targeting a wide range of audiences, such as children and adolescents, women, senior citizens, migrants and refugees, different types of occupational groups, such as health professionals, as well as policy makers, other NGOs and decision makers.
Prolepsis Institute has initiated and collaborated on a diverse range of public health projects that operate on national, European and international levels. The majority of the implemented initiatives entail multifaceted objectives and activities, including research protocols, critical analysis and literature reviews, epidemiological studies, statistical analysis, development of technical guidance and educative resource materials, training and education of groups/professionals on topics related to preventive medicine as well as collection and dissemination of information. The Institute also designs and implements wide scale health promotion programs tackling important health related problems such as obesity, smoking and alcohol.
During the years Prolepsis has led or participated in projects and initiatives that deal with migrant and refugee health such as the EU-funded project on the promotion of vaccinations for migrant populations in Europe – the PROMOVAX project. Moreover, Prolepsis participated in the “Sunia Geel” project, which was a response to the need to protect women and children against all forms of violence, focused on domestic violence, in particular within minority groups and migrants population.
Prolepsis has also organized the Pan-European Conference on the “Integration of Immigrants: Good practices in the sectors of Health, Welfare & Social Security” in Greece (6/2011).
CARDET is one of the leading research and training centres in the eastern Mediterranean region with global expertise in project design and implementation, project management, training, and e-learning. CARDET has completed numerous projects relating to the development of adult and vocational training initiatives in the areas of financial literacy, innovation, and entrepreneurship. Members of its team and board represent European and International Higher education institutions, training centres and international organizations, and have in-depth knowledge of the adult training sector, social justice, e-learning approaches, and social progress.
CARDET brings together an international team of experts with decades of global expertise in adult training, capacity building, curriculum development, social entrepreneurship, vocational training, design thinking, innovation, education research, evaluation, and human resource development. Members of the CARDET team have successfully participated in more than 200 projects in more than 30 countries, several of which were supported by the European Commission, the United Nations Development Program, Microsoft, the Commonwealth of Learning, international agencies, and governments from around the world.
The EHESP French School of Public Health is the leading school of public health in France. EHESP trains top senior public sector, health and social services managers, inspectors and controllers ; it provides postgraduate and doctoral education and conducts research in all major disciplines linked to public health. Thus, EHESP offers a unique combination of professional and research based training courses in French and English language and leads a multidisciplinary network of graduate schools.
Ninety lecturers, grouped into 4 departments, provide training for senior management in health and welfare services, in a national and international context (training programs for healthcare professionals, Masters, post-masters, doctoral degrees and Institution-specific Diplomas). EHESP also offers certificates and more than 400 “short” training programs both in class setting and through distance learning, as well as training courses tailored to the needs of each facility, that are updated each year in various public health fields. Besides, EHESP offers preparatory courses for civil service examinations. The relevance and quality of teaching are an integral part of applied research. Research is carried out by 2 joint labs and 2 research teams, 1 environmental health research laboratory (LERES), research chairs in partnership and a doctoral network.
The National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (NKUA) is a research-oriented pub-lic university covering a wide spectrum of scientific fields. Its vision is to promote excel-lence in education and innovation in research, scholarly and other creative endeavours and also be actively involved with local, national and global communities.
Inaugurated in 1837 under the original name “Othonian University”, it is the oldest high-er education institution of the modern Greek state and the first university in the Balkan and Eastern Mediterranean area. In 1932 it was formally renamed as “The National and Kapodistrian University of Athens”, a public, self-governed legal entity, under the auspi-ces of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs.
The University consists of eight (8) Schools — Theology; Law; Economics and Political Sciences; Philosophy; Sciences; Health Sciences, Education, Physical Education and Sport Science — and thirty three (33) Departments. Each department offers one Bache-lor’s degree, postgraduate and doctoral programmes.
The mission of the NKUA is to advance knowledge and education in sciences and arts. In all academic units our researchers and faculty strive for innovation and seek to de-velop the passion for excellence as well as the ability to think critically, to contribute in research and innovation and to public policy-making. Internationalization of the Univer-sity and its openness towards our stakeholders is key to collaborating effectively with other institutions and organisations - national and international.
The aim at NKUA is to maximize the benefits of research by advancing fundamental knowledge and contributing to improved public policy, better health outcomes, economic prosperity, social cohesion, international development, community identity, the arts, cul-ture and the quality of life. Research and innovation are integral to academic excellence and a is a priority for the academic community, thus promoting the publication of re-search results in scientific journals, at academic conferences, contribution to books/monographs/chapters in edited volumes and book reviews, etc. NKUA collabo-rates with leading university networks, public sector bodies and business sector units – in Greece and internationally.
The Central Union of Greek Municipalities (KEDE) is a legal entity of private law representing the first level of self governance in Greece (municipalities). It was established in 1927 during the first Conference of the Mayors of Greece.
KEDE holds its headquarters in the centre of Athens and employees 35 persons in a modern building with all the necessary equipment to hold official international meetings. It also has scientific advisory bodies: the Hellenic Agency of Local Development and Local Government (EETAA) / Information-Training- Local Development SA (PETA) and the Institute of Local Government (ITA).
KEDE also works in the level of its thematic committees that apply for relevant decisions to the administrative board after the discussions held within their framework on several topics concerning local self-governance such as : civil society, employment and social economy, education and Youth, health and social caring, insularity and mountain areas policy, institutions and equality, rural development, spatial planning, e-governance, National Strategic Reference Framework 2014-2020 ect.
The registered association Ethno-Medical Centre (Ethno-Medizinisches Zentrum e.V., short: EMZ) is a German non-profit organization operating nationwide and internationally. The EMZ aims at connecting people with different professional, cultural and social backgrounds. As a centre of excellence for health and social inclusion, the EMZ makes healthcare and educational systems more accessible to migrants and refugees. It promotes and supports refugees’, migrant laborers’ and ethnic minorities’ health. It is based in Hanover (Germany) and was founded in 1989. Its members, board and staff are mainly composed of people with migration background, various actors in the sphere of public health, as well as medical research and teaching. Its mission is the empowerment and integration of migrants in the fields of health, social affairs, labor and education. The association also consolidates the competence of intercultural actions of institutions and health professionals by providing training, research and publications.
The EMZ was the first non-governmental organization in Germany implementing programmes on migrant and refugee health in the early 1990s, including the first professional community interpreter service in Germany. The core activity of the EMZ is the project “Health ¬– with Migrants for Migrants in Europe” (MiMi) (see also below). The MiMi project is improving migrants’ and refugees’ access to health services by increasing their health literacy and by capacity building in the field of public health. MiMi´s key technology for social inclusion includes executive education for intercultural mediators, health campaigns in migrant communities, multilingual health guides to explain health systems, related health topics or healthy life styles, networking and evaluation. It is conducted in more than 15 languages and has been implemented in more than 70 cities throughout Europe. The project was subject to a WHO case study and won various awards (e.g. Future Award, Sustainability Award, Prevention Award and Quality Award, European Health Award in 2015).
The EMZ and its work is funded by local and governmental authorities like the German Health Ministry, the Ministry for Social Affairs, Health and Equality of Lower Saxony, the City and Region of Hanover, the Bavarian State Ministry for Health and Care, the Schleswig- Holstein Ministry for Social Affairs and Health, and the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg. Furthermore, it receives funding by health insurance funds (“BKK Betriebskrankenkassen” – Federal association for the statutory health insurers), the German Pension Insurance and by several private companies and foundations. From 2008-2011 the EMZ was leading partner of the EAHC project Aids&Mobility Europe.
Kopin works for human rights and children’s rights with the aim to empower its beneficiaries as key agents for social change and advancement. It is a hybrid, operating in three interconnected fields: international sustainable development cooperation, refugee support and education.
Set up 16 years ago, it is one of the few professional NGOs working in the human rights field in Malta. It is supervised by a Board of five members, managed by an executive team, has five employees and around 20 volunteers and interns.
Kopin’s team is made up of professionals with diverse backgrounds providing an innovative package of services – Kopin supports marginalised communities where other institutions struggle and provides its services in a sustainable way, is a main provider of Development Education in Malta and one of the few Maltese entities focusing on children’s rights. The organisation is a partner of over 100 institutions in Malta, across Europe and East Africa, ranging from NGOs to ministries, local authorities, universities and international organisations. Kopin envisions a global and inclusive society, where citizens are equally empowered to contribute to a world that is free of poverty and any other forms of injustice.
Monitoring political processes and engaging in policy dialogue with decision makers to influence the debate on Maltese and European policies related to development, migration and children’s rights.
Kopin is legally registered with the Office of the Commissioner for Voluntary Organisations (VO/0200).
EKEPY’s areas of intervention are, in a few words, Crisis Management in the Health Sector, Accidents and Devastations, Pre-Hospital Health Care, In-Hospital Health Care, Primary Care.
After the recent refugee crisis, EKEPY has been named as the main public body that coordinates all health care units and NGOs, in every official or unofficial refugee camp all over Greece.
NaHOC will contribute in the dissemination strategy by offering to the Consortium to benefit from the organization of continuous targeted meetings under the auspices of the Greek Ministry of Health. These meetings will include presidents and directors from all health sector organizations (Health Regions, Public Hospitals, Private Sector’s Hospitals and Medical Schools & Universities) and also representatives from authorities, organizations and NGOs that deal with refugees and migrants. Finally we will be assisting in the development of scientific publications to relevant journals if the results allow for that.
The Research Institute on Social Welfare Policy (POLIBIENESTAR) is one of the research institutes at University of Valencia. Well-known internationally, its main research areas are innovation in social technology, technical advising and training in the social policy field.
Polibienestar is made up of an interdisciplinary team led by Jorge Garcés Ferrer, and more than 100 researchers shape the team. They come from University of Valencia and other 7 Spanish universities and three international universities. It has been doing both basic and applied research on the economic, social, political and technical sustainability aspects of welfare systems. Furthermore, Polibienestar has been advising both the Administration and private companies on the planning, design and implementation of social welfare and sustainable resources and policies.
Areas of research: Health and Social policies, Vulnerable groups, Governance and public administrations, Corporate economics, Smart Cities, Tourism.
Oxfam is one of the most important international confederations in the world specializing in humanitarian aid and development projects, consisting of 17 organizations from different countries who work with 3,000 local partners in over 90 countries to find lasting solutions to poverty and injustice. Oxfam Italy, which acceded in 2010 to the international confederation of Oxfam, was created by Ucodep, an Italian non-governmental organization, which for over 30 years is fighting to improve the living conditions of thousands of poor people in the world and give them the power and the 'energy to build their own future, to control and direct.
Oxfam Italy has chosen an integrated approach between development programs and emergency interventions, campaigns and educational initiatives to improve the living conditions of thousands of people in the world by allowing them to exercise their rights and to build a decent future.
The Region of Sterea Ellada is the second larger Greek region, located in the centre of the country, with major motorway and railway axes connecting North and South Greece. At North it shares borders with Thessaly, at West with Western Greece and at South with Attica. It is surrounded by the Aegean Sea and the Gulf of Evia at the east and by the Corinthian Gulf at the South.
The Region has a population of 546.870 inhabitants, corresponding to 5.07% of the total population of the country. The 33% of the population in Sterea Ellada is urban, concentrated mainly in the departments of Euvoia (210.210 inhabitants) and Fthiotitda (158.220 inhabitants), the 15% is semi-urban and the 52% is rural.
Sterea Ellada occupies a total area of 15,549 sq. km., corresponding to 11,8% of the total area of Greece and consists of 735,8 million hectares of mountain area, 497,1 million hectares of semi-mountainous area and 322,2 million hectares of lowland area. The two main islands of the Region, Evia and Skyros, are pole of tourist attraction.
Sterea Ellada is the industrial centre of Greece, nevertheless it has rural areas too. It is worth noting that only 3% of the total area is residential. The main mountainous area of Sterea Ellada is formed around its centre. Forests cover the 25% of the total regional area, while 2% is covered by water. The cultivated areas of the region occupy the 26% of total area, while the 43% is used in farming activities. The Region is rich in special and rare ecosystems; 18 special environmental sites of the Region are being protected according to the NATURA 2000 framework, while there are 3 Special Protection Areas. Sterea Ellada is famous for its world-renown hot springs and spa.
Τhe share of the population that is economically active is 33%, from of which 9,4 % works in the primary sector, 51,5% in the secondary sector and 42,1 % in the tertiary sector. The unemployment rate accounts for the 16,1% of the population and lies slightly above the national average. Immigration flows have importantly affected the demography of the region, as the immigrants’ share in the composition of the regional population accounts for 8%, one of the highest in Greece.
Due to favorable conditions and because of its proximity to Attiki, the Region of Sterea Ellada has emerged as one of the industrial centres of Greece with important industrial and manufacturing activities, accounting for the 46% of the regional GDP. Moreover, activites related to the tertiary sector account for the 43% of the regional GDP and gravitate mostly real estate and public services. The tourism sector, on the other hand, counts up only for the 4,4% of the regional GDP and is less developed than the national average, however, it has great potential for further growth due to the region’s natural hot springs and spa (Kamena Vourla, Edipsos), archaeological sites and geographic location.
The agricultural sector counts up only for the 8% percent of the regional GDP% and is estimated to be subject of further decline in the future. Rural activities concentrate in the production of olive oil, wheat, fruits and vegetables, as well as in the breeding of livestock. Numerous agricultural products of the Region have been enlisted in the Protected Designation Origin EU scheme, such as, the Olives of Stylida, Konservolia of Amfissa and Atalanti, Katiki Domokou (goat cheese), Formaela (goat cheese),Fistiki of Ftiotida and Dry Figs of Kimi. The Region interconnects North and South Greece, not only geographically, but also with major infrastructure and motorways. It is crossed by the main road and rail axes in Greece, also included in the wider European Network of Transports. The transport network of the Sterea Ellada is supported by small regional ports, straits and marinas, yet of low capacity but with potential of further development. Moreover, the location of Sterea Ellada in the centre of Greece provides great potential for the development of a strong transportation network.
Uppsala University, founded in 1477, is the oldest university in Sweden and all Nordic countries. It ranks among the world's 100 best universities in several high-profile international rankings. The university has nine faculties with various programmes including more than 40,000 students with international frontline research at nine faculties and a variety of diverse educational choices at Bachelor’s, Master’s and PhD levels.
The Department of Sociology at Uppsala University is the oldest department of sociology in Sweden. Its main subjects are Sociology and Social psychology. Undergraduate education is also offered in Sociology.
Verein Multikulturell – Tyrolean Integration Centre is a non-governmental organisation founded in 1993. We aim to enhance the intercultural dialogue and education. Our main objective is to promote the professional, social and cultural integration of migrants. Our association actively promotes the social and professional skills of migrants in collaboration with the government and other state institutions (such as the Chamber of Commerce), job centres, schools as well as social organizations and societies.
Throughout the years, we have gained tremendous experience in designing and leading national as well as international projects or in taking up the active role of a transnational project partner.
The National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases (NCIPD) is a national institution with the status of scientific organization under the Ministry of Health, which aims to develop the scientific foundations of the fight against infectious diseases and methods for its implementation. This determines intensive research regarding ethiology, pathogenesis, immune reactivity, epidemiological characteristics, laboratory diagnostics, treatment and prophylactics of bacterial and viral infections (including nosocomial) and parasitic invasions. NCIPD is the only non-tertiary institution in the country that is accredited since 1999 by the National Agency for Assessment and Accreditation Agency (NEAA) Council of Ministers as a university in the field of infectology with rights to train students and conduct postgraduate training in epidemiology, microbiology, virology, parasitology and immunology and allergy. Long tradition is annually organized dozens of training courses for specialists from home and abroad with several hundred participants.
In NCIPD are all National Reference Laboratory (NRL) in various bacterial, viral and parasitic infections, united in so Laboratory test Complex (LTC), which is only for now in our country accredited by the Bulgarian Accreditation Service (BAS) in 2003 under the European requirements of standard BS ISO EN 17025 for high quality work. 1998 NRL are under constant international external laboratory control of the German accreditation system Instand. NCIPD by national reference laboratories from 1998 held a national external laboratory quality control of laboratory diagnostics performed by all microbiology, virology and parasitology laboratories in the country, with a successful result enables them to conclude contracts with the NHIF.
2007 NCIPD was declared a Collaborating Centre of the World Health Organization (WHO) of the United Nations on epidemiological surveillance of communicable diseases and antibiotic resistance with the task of responding to these trends and training of personnel for the countries of South East Europe and Asian countries former USSR. In 2007, the National Inspectorate was set by the European Centre for Disease Control (ECDC) in Stockholm as a leading responsible national organization etc. "National competent body" in the field of infectious and parasitic diseases. NCIPD, together with the Ministry of Health, performs daily broad anti-epidemic and organizational -metodichna work with highly skilled and expert advice, specialized laboratory diagnostics, organization of workshops, seminars, etc., The issue of specialized scientific and applied scientific journals as Infectology, Problems of Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, newsletter and other informational and educational materials.
In NCIPD is performed laboratory and production activities of several original biological preparations for the needs of our healthcare and export: allergenic products for the diagnosis and immunotherapy of allergic diseases, monoclonal antibodies to determine the blood group substances and lymphocyte markers and preparations for the diagnosis of parasitic invasions. They are produced under conditions of Good Practice has been manufactured according to requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia and standard ISO 9001/9000. NCIPD carried out extensive international cooperation in research activities, postgraduate education and anti-surveillance of communicable diseases with WHO, ETSKZ, the Global Fund at the United Nations, European Union programs Phare, Copernicus, Interreg, Tempus, NATO and a number of foreign universities and institutes on a bilateral or multilateral basis.
All exposed convincingly shows the very important and responsible position that occupies NCIPD in national and international health systems and fully corresponds to the motto adopted and implemented daily by its employees: "In the name of science - for the good of the people." NCIPD is the oldest scientific-practical institute in the field of healthcare in Bulgaria. Created in 1881, immediately after the Liberation of Bulgaria from Ottoman rule, it was the beginning of the modern fight against infectious and parasitic diseases in the country on the basis of the latest achievements of world science. Contributes significantly in this regard the construction and equipment of this building NCIPD with financial support from the Rockefeller Foundation in 1932-1935. Passed more than 125 years of development, won over the years large national and international reputation NCIPD today is a major national unit in the field of health collaborators who develop the scientific foundations and methodological approaches for successful control of communicable diseases - their ethion-pathogenesis , epidemiology, laboratory diagnostics, immunotherapy and specific and non-specific immunization, according to the latest achievements of science and requirements of the WHO and the European Union.
In this regard they have contributed very long tradition, continuity, broad international contacts and many good laboratory facilities in NCIPD, as well as high requirements for specialists working in it. All this makes today NCIPD very authoritative and respected national and international research and applied research institution. Special mention should be made of complex, multidisciplinary approach to solve all scientific and practical problems and tasks in the fight against infectious and parasitic diseases based on close cooperation of specialists from different fields: epidemiologists, microbiologists, virologists, parasitologists, immunologists, chemists, biochemists, veterinarians and others working in the National Inspectorate, which is a guarantee of success.
Production of certain biological products for the diagnosis, treatment and immunization.

Private equity group Penta and the company J 23 a.s. yesterday reached an agreement on the sale of the ADAST a.s., a manufacturer of printing presses based in Adamov, Czech Republic. J 23, a company with a significant interest in machinery manufacturing, is purchasing 100 % of the shares in ADAST. The value of the transaction has not been disclosed. The new owner plans to keep the polygraphic manufacturing activities at ADAST.
Penta purchased ADAST out of bankruptcy in 2003. The company was in poor condition and it was having a hard time surviving in the highly competitive international market for printing equipment. In ADAST Penta invested primarily in the areas of production optimization, R&D and innovations. Although ADAST retained its existing production, it increasingly started to focus on cooperative arrangements. The company will continue these trends after its change of ownership.

In China, the prevalence of tooth decay among 12-year-olds increased nearly 35 percent from 2005 to 2015. While most parents still believe that good dental hygiene means brushing teeth twice a day, dental professionals suggest that neglecting timely oral care after meals contributes to the problem. Wrigley’s Extra Sugar-Free Gum wanted to inspire Chinese parents to encourage their children to chew sugar-free gum after meals, which can help prevent tooth decay and improve oral health.
We tapped into Chinese school children’s daily lunch routines and created the first interactive lunchbox that encourages children to practice oral hygiene after meals — Extra Care Box. The care box used artwork that playfully changes with heat and reveals cartoon characters who work together to clean their teeth. This fun activation captures children’s attention and encourages them to open a built-in compartment and chew the sugar-free gum inside it after meals, a simple reminder that helps improve their daily oral hygiene — without interrupting their playtime.

Arrangements have been made for a visit to the Dover CGOC at Langdon Battery, Swingate in the afternoon of Wednesday 3rd April. The visit, which is free, will commence promptly at 1430 and last at least 2 hours. There will be ample car parking is available on site however car sharing is desirable. Early booking is recommended, as places are limited to 30. Members will be restricted to bringing one guest.
For those who wish to meet up beforehand for lunch (1230 - 1400), places can be booked at a local pub (food payable at the venue). Please indicate whether or not you want to during the booking process. Confirmation as to the location of the lunch venue will be provided nearer the time of the visit, once numbers have been finalised.
Prior booking for this event and for lunch, if required, is essential. As part of the booking process, which is now open through the RIN website, members and their guests will be required to provide details of their nationality for security purposes.

joel mayward: Feeling stressed, but looking good!
Feeling stressed, but looking good!
We're getting ready for our trip to Arizona today by doing lots of laundry and thinking through everything we need. We're checking our flight information, hotel information, car rental information...lots of information! We have maps of the greater Phoenix area and the city of Mesa. We have driving directions to the hotel from the airport, the hotel to the church, and anywhere else we need to go. Preparing these things ahead of time is a must: it's no fun to arrive in a new city and realize you have no idea how to get around! We also have a basic timeline for every day we're in Arizona: who we're meeting, where we're going, times for relaxing, etc. Preparation is key!
I think the weightiness of this excursion is playing havoc with my insides: I'm feeling mildly ill and not sleeping too well at night. This could be due to stress. I'm not a doctor, but that's my diagnosis. Finding out we might be getting a new job, a new home, and essentially a new life in less than a week is a stressful endeavor!
We're uber-excited! We leave tomorrow!
we are dang uber-excited too!! will call katie tomorrow- wanted to tonight but ran out of time. have been thinking lots about her and praying too in preparation! bring your running/hiking shoes in case we have time to hit pinnacle.
Good luck you guys. You will be awesome!

We're a web design, web development and creative agency based in St Lawrence, Jersey, Channel Islands.
We implement online tools and strategies to help your business grow - from small to medium sized businesses here in Jersey, to blue chip companies worldwide. We have more than 15 years experience in web design and development, and with our friendly, open but professional attitude to work we have built many successful client relationships, the majority of which we continue to work with for many years.
We'll work with you to develop an understanding of your business objectives, brand identity, audience and your overall vision for the future.
We'll create a strategic plan for your project to take shape, including timelines and milestones so you know what to expect at every stage in the process.
We'll design you a simply beautiful website that works seamlessly across multiple platforms and devices, whilst delivering a rich and engaging user experience.
We'll develop your designs into a working model using the latest techniques, keeping you completely in the picture along the way.
We'll review and test everything before finally delivering your project, on time and on budget as promised.
Of course on-going support and monitoring is all part of the service. We're with you every step of the way.
We're professional but approachable, friendly and helpful, talented and inspired. We can think as large as you need us to whilst offering all the benefits of a small creative agency. Besides we'd love to meet you.
We're a creative bunch and you'll really enjoy working with us. We love what we do and we're passionate about every project, treating each with the same care and attention that we would our own.
Our reputation has been achieved through consistent high quality, not just with a view to design and creativity but by ensuring our work is technically correct and thoroughly checked.
We really do care that our clients are satisfied. We're not about creating the longest list of clients possible, we're about achieving success for every one of them. That's our measure of success.
For years we've been pioneering website availability, without barriers. We offer a range of packages to suit all budgets - No upfront fees, bite-size monthly instalments and all the benefits of your own professionally designed website.

I figured if I could do it at all, I needed the help of the big guns. My 400mm f/2.8 lens would have worked nicely, it would allow me to zoom into the moon to fill the frame and still let plenty of light in to give me the best chance of a capture. I ran into two problems. First off, doubled – the 400mm 2.8 lens goes to 800mm f/5.6. Then, the more zoomed in you are, the more the movement of the subject in the frame. I had settled on a 1.4x extender which would get me close to 600mm with just a one stop penalty to put me at f/4.
Next was the camera. I have a Canon Rebel 35mm film SLR that I bought on eBay for $1. It had controller issues, but thankfully the camera just so happened to work set to manual. I gave the inside a coat of urethane, set up some glass guides to hold a plate and shot it. 600mm, f/4 – ten seconds. And that’s the plate you see to the right.
Fast forward ten or so months I just so happen to be interested in seeing what I can achieve with the setup again. My converted SLR has since gone missing in the attic and I really didn’t want to permanently convert one of my many other 35mm film SLR cameras to wet plate. So for a few minutes I looked at the back of the camera and came up with a game plan on a plate holder that turned a 35mm camera into a wet plate camera.. And the best thing was that it was reversible. That is, if you’re careful to not drip corrosive silver nitrate into the body.
Because the material is just a millimeter and a half thick I decided to hollow the center with no corners and then just stick corners on myself with a good metal to plastic glue. The corners themselves are cut pieces of trophy plate.
Once the glue was dried the holder gives a nice snug fit in the film compartment of the Canon Rebel 35mm body! I hope to get to making some images soon with it!

This page collects older news items from the home page.
8 Oct. 2015: I have moved debtox.info to another web hoster due to problems with the services from KPN. There might still be some glitches; if you run into unexpected behaviour, please let me know.
13 August 2015: the site has a new look and feel! I moved everything from a php-based web-builder application to plain html. This makes it easier for me to maintain, and to move to another webhoster, if needed. The important old php links should redirect automatically to the new html pages. Some glitches may occur .... so please contact me if you hit an unexpected result.
7 August 2015: moved my DEBtox Research activities to a dedicated website: www.debtox.nl. This info site will remain the place with information on models, sorftware, e-books, publications and courses.
March 2015: the hits counter at the bottom of the page has now exceeded 100,000 hits!
21 June 2012. Check out Roman Ashauer advertising TKTD modelling in SETACs newsletter over here.
5 May 2012. On the discussion board, I started a forum on "Ecotox Essays".This forum will present short opinions and critical comments on an ecotoxicological topic. I will try to regulary write a contribution, but I also highly welcome contributions from others! See the board for further details.
Also at the 2019 SETAC conference in Helsinki, there will be the spectacular “GUTS to the Max”: Mechanistic Effect Models Hackathon, organised by Roman Ashauer. More information.
For 2019, a new round of the DEB telecourse is planned, and also a classroom part (1-6 April), followed by workshops (8-9 April), and the international DEB symposium (10-12 April). This time, the location will be Brest, France. More information is provided on the symposium website. Application to the DEB2019 school is open and the deadline is extended to February 15, 2019.
If you are a young environmental scientist, make sure to check out the YES meeting in Ghent, 5-10 February 2019. I will be teaching a short course on DEBkiss there. Registration deadline is 18 December 2018.
Dedicated 2-day GUTS course, geared towards professionals in risk assessment of pesticides. 16-18 October, Wageningen, the Netherlands. More information.
As part of the 2019 SETAC conference in Helsinki, Sandrine Charles is organising a 1-day short course on GUTS (on 26 May 2019). Download the flyer.
Sandrine is also organising a more extensive winter school 6-10 January 2020 (in Lyon, France) focussing on ecotox effect models.
27 August 2018: the EFSA opinion on TKTD models is now available over here. This opinion will be pivotal for the application of GUTS and DEBtox in environmental risk assessment (in particular for pesticides).
26 March 2018: the 2018 round of the TKTD modelling summer course DynModTox has been cancelled.
24 August 2016. We just finished the third round of the DynModTox summerschool in Denmark. Some impressions from the 2016 course over here.
Wednesday 13 January, at the VU University, Carlos Teixeira defended his thesis entitled "Application of Dynamic Energy Budget theory for conservation relevant modelling of bird life histories." Announcement (in Dutch).
On 2 June 2015, James Maino successfully defended his thesis entitled "The Importance of Body Size: Scaling of Physiological Traits in Insects" at the VU in Amsterdam. Announcement over here.
On 8 May, Bas Kooijman will deliver his farewell speech at the VU University, which also marks the end of the Dept. of Theoretical Biology at this university. See the announcement (in Dutch). The trilogy booklet with Bas' inaugaral and farewell speeches can be downloaded over here.
On 28-30 April 2015, there will be the fourth international DEB symposium in Marseille, France. Abstract submission is closed.
As of 1 March 2015, Tjalling Jager has left the VU University to continue as a self-employed researcher under the name DEBtox Research. I will remain associated with the VU as a guest of the department of Animal Ecology. February-April 2015, there will be a new round of the DEB course. Part in tele-mode, and part hands-on in Marseille, France. More info. This will be the last course organised by Bas Kooijman, so don't miss it!
14 January, we had the succesful defense of Alpar Barsi, who's CREAM project was supervised by Virginie Ducrot and myself. His thesis can be found here.
In August 2014, we provided the second summercourse on dynamic modelling in ecotoxicology. Impressions.
18 June 2013. Elke Zimmer and Ben Martin successfully defended their PhD theses! Congratulations! More info on Elke's thesis and Ben's thesis.
Cancelled: the 2013 PhD summer course "Dynamic modelling of toxic effects". More details about the course over here.
Mike Newman offers his course on quantitative methods in ecotoxicology (in the US) from 17-21 June 2013. See brochure.
Webcast minicourse on DEB principles by Roger Nisbet 31 January till 21 February, see course description. An excellent starting point for people doing the DEB telecourse.
On 24-26 April 2013, the third international DEB symposium was held on the island of Texel in the Netherlands. Details over here.
In 2012, the first PhD summer course "Dynamic modelling of toxic effects" was held on 11-18th of August in Denmark, which focussed on TKTD modelling in general, and on GUTS and DEBtox in particular. Impressions from the 2012 course can be found over here. More details about the course over here.
8 December 2018: a new version of the GUTS e-book has been released at Leanpub. Most important change is in the statistical treatment. See version log at the support page for more details.
15 November 2018: a new version of the DEBkiss e-book has been released at Leanpub.
15 August 2018: update to the ring test results for BYOM. See the guts e-book page.
18 January 2018: The long-awaited GUTS e-book is released in Version 1.0! More information.
24 July 2017: Update of the "Making sense of chemical stress" e-book. Improved readability and update with new developments.
6 December 2016: New version of the DEBkiss book published. More information.
14 August 2015: small update to the technical document, adding a section on joint confidence regions.
11-12 August 2015: the e-books "Making sense of chemical stress" and "DEBkiss" have both been moved to the Leanpub publishing framework, and can be downloaded here and here, respectively. You can still get them for free, but also have the possibility to pay me (which will support future development of this and other books).
4 April 2015: small update of the DEBkiss book.
11 February 2015: New version of the DEBkiss book.
11 February 2015: Small update of the technical background document.
15 October 2014: New version 1.1 of the e-book "Making sense of chemical stress" over here. Added a chapter with two case studies.
15 June 2014. Version 1.1 of the e-book on DEBkiss is now available over here. Some minor changes.
18 May 2014. Version 1.0 of the e-book on DEBkiss is now available over here. Basically an embellished version of our JTB paper.
14 June 2013. Version 1.0 of the e-book now available for download over here. Small changes relative to Beta 1 version.
20 Sept. 2012. The first Beta 1 version of the technical document for the e-book over here.
9 April 2012. The first Beta 1 version of the free e-book "Making Sense of Chemical Stress" is available for download over here.
7 September 2018: small update of BYOM to v. 4.2c and updated GUTS package v. 2.3. More details on the BYOM page.
13 August 2018: a quick update of BYOM to v. 4.2b. This was needed as I found some errors in conjunction with GUTS package. See BYOM page for details.
9 August 2018: updates of packages 'dose-response', 'acute Calanus', and 'support marecotox'. The dose-response package also has a nicer walkthrough. See BYOM page.
7 August 2018: new version of BYOM and the GUTS package, fixing the issue with the likelihood-region method. More details on the BYOM page.
28 June 2018: running simulations for GUTS, I am getting confirmation that the likelihood-region method (as implemented in BYOM) is yielding exaggerated confidence intervals on model predictions. More details on the BYOM page.
In 2018/2019 we will be producing a user-friendly software for GUTS. More information.
1 February 2018: New versions of BYOM and the GUTS package. See the BYOM page.
12 May 2017: Spotted a small error in BYOM when calculatin the intervals on LC50s with the likelihood-region method. This corrected in a small update to version 4.01.
27-28 April 2017: Release of BYOM 4.0 on the BYOM page. This is a major update, with many new features, but old scripts and packages will not work anymore! All packages have been updated; the two GUTS packages have been combined, and some have been renamed for clarity.
6 April 2017: Added the Beta 3 test version of BYOM 4.0 on the BYOM page. Also a new version of the GUTS package is included.
15 February 2017: Added a Beta test version of BYOM 4.0 on the BYOM page. This is still under testing, but feel free to play with it. Also, I added some warnings for users of profiling and slice sampling with BYOM.
5 January 2017: New version of the BYOM platform available for download.
7 April 2016. Small update of the BYOM modelling framework in Matlab.
25 and 27 August: another update of BYOM (sorry, found some small errors again). Additionally, an updated version of the DEBtox1 package (also demonstrating the improved population growth rate calculation). Updates of GUTS1 and DEBkiss1 packages. And ... a totally new package: DEBkiss_tox1, which is DEBkiss turned into a TKTD model. 29 August: update of the GUTS2 and DEBkiss2 package as well. All packages now have a walk through.
21 August: update of BYOM. Corrected a few errors and added some new functionality that will be demonstrated in future packages.
30 June 2015: update of BYOM. Corrected some errors and included a few extra options.
17 April 2015: update of DEBtoxM flavours Surv, GUTS and DEBtox. The DEB3 flavour is no longer offered.
3 April 2015: major update of BYOM. Some alternative optimisation methods are included, plus the possibility to fit parameters on log-scale. And ... the possibility to publish the code in Matlab (see the walkthrough of the BYOM code). Also a new version of the manual is provided.
18 February 2015: update of BYOM and the GUTS2 package. Main change is to avoid warnings with newer versions on Matlab (due to different way of dealing with interpolations), and the option to plot in black-and-white with different symbols (as in the DEBtoxM flavours).
2 January 2015: tiny 2.02 update for BYOM, and extended the BYOM manual, and gave a seperate entry on the BYOM download page.
17 December 2014: New version of the BYOM files to version 2.0. Major change is the possibility to have more than one data set per stage, and a brand new simulation engine. As of version 1.5, cleaner and simpler BYOM scripts. New packages for GUTS, DEBtox and some nice examples for the simulator! (Version 2.01 also has a small update to the manual).
29 November 2014: New version of the BYOM files. Major change is the removal of the calculation and plotting from the basic script into an engine script, which takes away a lot of complexity from the user.
1 May 2014. New version 1.5 of BYOM files posted over here. Also, a new package general package for DEBkiss.
29 Jan. 2013. New version 1.4 of the BYOM package, and the GUTS and DEBkiss packages over here.
29 Aug. 2012. New version 1.3 of the BYOM package over here.
30 June 2012. The flexible modelling platform BYOM is available over here.
19 May 2012. New versions of all flavours posted over here. New versions were needed because of an error in the calculation of the likelihood function for replicated graded data (with different number of individuals per replicate). Further, changes are made to increase flexibility and ease of operation.
9 January 2019: new paper on automated high-throughput measurements of body size (which could really facilitate DEB(tox) application in the future). Open access. Note that this is my 100th (co-)authored paper ;-).
8 August 2018: new paper out on modelling bioenergetics in early life stages of cod: 50-day free download link.
1 January 2017: Our GUTS paper has just hit 100 citations in Web of Science! DOI 10.1021/es103092a.
October 2016: The book "Marine Ecotoxicology: current Knowledge and Future Issues" has just come out. I wrote a chapter "Dynamic modelling for uptake and effects of chemicals" in there. The book can obtained from Elsevier or your favourite bookstore, or via ScienceDirect. The support page for my chapter can be found over here.
Jager T, Ravagnan E (2015). Parameterising a generic model for the dynamic energy budget of Antarctic krill, Euphausia superba. Mar Ecol Progr Ser 519:115-128 DOI 10.3354/meps11098.
Just appeared: the 2014 special issue on DEB research in the Journal of Sea Research. Find it here.

Pancakes are usually believed to be one of the best variations of weekend breakfast. They associate with childhood, careless days, sweet childhood memories, and generally with tasty treat. However, far from everyone is able to make this treat on their own.
Today, the idea of a healthy lifestyle becomes very popular. More and more people start thinking about healthier cooking and eating, discover different diets, and look for organic products. This is due to a certain fashion, of course, but such trend is very useful for society in general.

Enjoy our variety of meat cuts prepared with authentic Southern Brazilian Style using our open fire grill to unleash all meat flavors, this is what we call ?Churrasco? (Brazilian barbecue). All of our specialty meats will be brought to you, at your table, by our skilled ?Gauchos? (Brazilian Cowboys).
Asian-inspired, traditional, gluten-friendly and vegan pizzas, handmade appetizers, salads and happy endings with your favorite Coke or Pepsi products.
Jethro's has been serving up his world famous, amazing slow smoked meats since 2008. Owned by 2012 restaurateur of the year Bruce Gerleman, there are now seven Jethro's BBQ restaurants in the area.
Our mission is to share the most wonderful experience of the richness, colors, and diversity of genuine Peruvian Cuisine.
Authentic East Coast Pizza by the Slice or Pie! Pizza by the Slice, Pizza Pies, Calzones, Sandwiches, Salads, Beer & Wine.
Ingersoll Avenue’s newest dining destination - Teddy Maroon’s is a neighborhood bar and grill offering classic American food, craft beers, cocktails and wines, seven days a week.

For many manufacturers, compressed air is often extremely expensive.
On average, compressed air costs can consist of up to 50% of the total electric expenditure of a large manufacturing plant – adding up to millions of dollars per year.
Our fundamental approach at Bay Controls is to work with you to reduce your compressed air system energy usage and, in turn, bring you predictable and reliable energy savings of 10-13%. This approach is based on several core strategies.
Our controllers use powerful microprocessors to collect and analyze critical compressor monitoring points up to 100 times every second. Through this industry-leading combination of power and data, we can recognize and react to even the smallest changes in air system conditions faster than any other systems out there.
As a result, Bay controllers consistently maintain pressure within a narrow 1-2 psi band and enable pressure set points to be lowered while still reliably maintaining the minimum required system pressure. Lowered pressure points bring about immediate and substantial savings.
According to the Department of Energy, the average compressed air system loses between 10-30% of its air due to leaks. Our focus is at Bay Controls to reduce potential leaks and translate that into lowered costs.
Since our controllers enable lower pressure set points with precise pressure control bands, they also drastically reduce the amount of lost and leaked air.
Many control systems don’t have the ability to automatically start and stop as plant air demand changes. The result? Air compressors often run continuously and unloaded for long periods of times.
Bay controllers allow you to schedule your air when you need it, matching your air supply to your demand based on your plant’s production. You can reduce unnecessary run time and save energy overall.
As an energy solutions company, Bay Controls is often included in the custom incentive programs that investor-owned utilities (IOUs) offer their customers. IOUs are focused on reducing energy consumption, and our systems and solutions are the perfect way to achieve these goals.
If you’re considering doing any energy projects at your facility and are eligible for a custom incentive program from your IOU provider, we can offset the project costs and have a faster ROI on any investment(s) you make.
Would you like to learn how you can save up to 10-13% on your total energy spend?
Schedule a 5-minute discovery call with the Bay Controls team!

The real homes WordPress theme is a handcrafted WP theme for a real estate websites with purpose oriented design with all the useful features a real estate website needs. The WordPress theme has advanced properties search feature that is powerful and fully customizable to fulfil various needs. Users can select which fields you want to display and what data will be displayed in those fields.
With real homes WordPress theme, users can display multiple location fields to provide search behaviour like State > City > Area. You can change the values of price fields. You can change the search behaviours and values for beds and baths fields. In short, you can fully customize the search form to match your own needs. The new version of the WordPress theme has a new module named “Search Form Over Image” that can be enabled for the homepage to replace slider area with a graceful looking search form over a background image. The theme also includes related customizer settings to fully customize image, search form fields, text, colours and margin.
Google Maps with Properties Markers: Real homes WordPress theme includes Google Maps API integration that enables you to display Google map with properties markers on search results page, properties display pages, property detail page, home page and taxonomy archive pages.
Comprehensive, Yet Easy to Use Customizer Settings: The real estate WordPress theme provides a wide-set of customized settings that will help you configure and customize stuff around your website more easily. You can customize the price format to any currency in the world. You can customize the URL slugs to your required ones. You can customize all the important stuff related to your website using customizer settings and without going into code.
Simple Login & Register OR Social Login Using Any Social Network: You can provide user registration, login and forgot password features on your site to let users access member-only features. Real homes WordPress comes with a simple login and registration features from start but Social Login feature was introduced in version 2.6.1 and allow you to integrate any social network with your website for this purpose. Consult the related section in the documentation for more details.
Easily Customizable Front End Property Submit: This real estate WordPress theme provides front-end property submit template and related configurations. So you can restrict the certain level of users from accessing administrator dashboard and give them an interface on the front end to submit properties. Later on, the website administrator can review and publish the submitted properties. Users can also configure the settings to auto-published property as soon the user pays a certain fee. Since Real Homes version 2.6.0 you can show/hide any field on property submit the form. This will help you hide the fields you think you do not need on your website. And much more.

Linda McCluskey’s scrapbook of memories is forged from oil paint and brush strokes.
Many of the images are familiar — Middle Street, The Worthen, downtown canalways — places you might have passed a thousand times. But when McCluskey reimagines them on canvas, the familiar begins to stir.
Brick and mortar. Cobblestones and canals. All bend, curve, twist and turn. You can almost hear the music. Feel the energy. It’s an invitation to step inside McCluskey’s world, where cityscapes seem to breathe.
Lowell, after all, is where she found inspiration to pick up a paintbrush again at age 40. Her success as a full-time working artist in Paris is proof, she says, that it’s never too late to pursue a dream.
Slogging along the daily grind, McCluskey’s art supplies ended up in boxes in a basement. She carried old photos of her favorite works with her as a reminder from time to time of who she was before becoming a mom, a wife and a cubicle dweller.
Sometimes life holds up a mirror and forces you to take a long hard look. Maybe it was the milestone, but McCluskey recalls her 40th birthday jogging something awake inside her.
And just like that, she put her dreams in action. With her kids Jake and Carly all grown up, she enrolled in college courses at UMass Lowell. Back at school, she travelled to France for a painting workshop and fell in love with her life all over again.
She was the happiest she had been in a long time, then tragedy struck. Her partner of six years, Ed McCabe, was killed in a motorcycle accident in 2001.
“I felt like my life was over,” McCluskey admits.
But in the shadow of her grief, she managed to find a sliver of light.
A close friend told her not to focus on the long and rolling highway. Follow the little paths life offers up instead. With nothing left to lose, McCluskey moved to France in January 2002. She was 44.
Picking up her brushes and paint again, she was reborn. Enter Linda McCluskey, the artist. Paris gave her freedom to rediscover and reinvent herself.
“In Paris, if you say you’re a painter, people don’t ask, ‘what do you really do?’ ” she explains.
In 2004, a move into a 6th floor studio overlooking St. Germaine Boulevard gave her a new perspective. Being a “country girl” born and raised in Chelmsford, she had never lived up so high.
The scenes unfolding on her canvas were well painted but still focused on proper form, until a trip to surrealist painter Salvador Dali’s beloved village of Cadaques in Spain pushed her brush in a whole new direction.
The natural beauty of Cadaques inspired Dali and the way he interpreted that on canvas brought attention to the region. Taking in the breathtaking view from a hillside, McCluskey did a Dali-esque painting of the village and the church melting over the mountains.
“After painting traditional views for so long, this felt like freedom to play and make up the impossible,” she says.
It was the beginning of McCluskey’s imaginative “distortion” pieces, and she gained recognition as a unique artist in Paris and in Lowell.
She returns to Lowell each year for inspiration.
Where Middle and Palmer streets intersect.
She points to her painting of Lowell’s Middle Street, one of her favorite downtown spots.
Today she has her own studio at Paris’ 59 Rivoli — one of the top three visited galleries in France — where she was accepted for a permanent residency. Her advice to others: If you love something do it.

FAQ on Brussels Ghost Tour - Find your answer here !
What should I bring for the tour?
Nothing special, just be ready to walk for bit and potentially something to protect you from poltergeists and rain. Any kind of amulet or protection stone is also welcome.
Can kids join too ?
Yes, we accept kids from 6 years old and on! We also have a family discount, if you book for 2 adults and 2 kids!
When does the tour run ?
Where is the meeting point ?
Brussels has many paved roads and those are hardly accessible with a wheelchair, for that reason we have to unfortunately label our tour as not wheelchair accessible.

A new EU Drivers Hours and Tachograph Law has just gone into effect, and it will impact owners of panel vans, 4x4 pickups and sports utility vehicles that use their vehicles for towing for business. The new law indicates that vehicles with a Gross Mass over 3,500kg must be fitted with a tachograph that will record the driver and vehicle’s activities. Gross Mass is calculated as the weight of the vehicle as well as the trailer towed behind it. In order to be in compliance, drivers not only need to have the tachograph, but also obey hours regulations. Unfortunately, not all of the smaller vehicles that now fall under the requirement are able to be fitted with the devices. Both van manufacturers and tachometer manufacturers need to find solutions.
This law was not an issue previously, as until recently vehicles Gross Mass was lower than 3,490kg. But as vehicles have improved in their capabilities and are now able to tow caravans, the change was deemed to be necessary.
Private vehicles being used to tow caravans are not impacted by the law, but if you are a business carrying extra equipment or supplies via caravan behind your van, the requirements apply. The fleet industry, which often uses vans to tow caravans, should note that if a tow bar is being attached to a vehicle then the tachometer needs to be installed as well.
Car manufacturers that have not previously needed to be able to equip these devices onto their vehicles are working to find a fix in order to prevent drivers from being open to prosecution.

Enjoy all day energy without the crash of stimulants. Pure Energy Extra Strength gives your body exuberant energy without the caffeine crash.
Kelp (whole plant) (Laminaria species), Gotu Kola (whole herb) (Centella asiatica), Ashwagandha (root) (Withania somnifera), Dandelion (root) (Taraxacum officinale), Licorice (root) (Glycyrrhiza glabra), Organic Peppermint (leaves) (Mentha x piperita).
Take 12 sprays of Pure Energy Extra Strength twice daily for heightened support, or 6 sprays twice daily for health maintenance.
Pregnant or nursing women should not take dietary supplements unless directed by a physician.

Having seen 2016 revelation Kelvin Herrera melt under injury/ineffectiveness in logging a horrid 4.25 ERA, the Kansas City Royals were forced to look elsewhere during last season in order to find some stability at closer. They might have found a big solution in former failed-starter-turned-ace-reliever Mike Minor who was simply phenomenal in pitching to a 2.55 ERA and logging a closer-like 10.20 in relief. While it took the Royals until last September to hand the closer role to Minor, the lefty successfully nailed down all six attempts to give the team optimism there heading into the winter. Finally healthy after years of serious injury (including missing all of 2015 due to Tommy John), Minor appears to be just the latest example of a guy whose stuff translates better in the bullpen. Now that he was able to rely almost solely on his potent fastball as a reliever last season, Minor saw a big jump in velocity in going from just 91.7 in 2014 (his last previous stint in the majors), all the way up to 94.9 a year ago. Hence the major increase in strikeouts and the resulting three-year deal worth $28 million the Texas Rangers handed to Minor this past December. While Minor showed he can be an excellent reliever a year ago, the Rangers are going to first try him out as a starter in 2018 spring training. While Minor had some eye-opening success as a starter with the Atlanta Braves back in 2013 (13 wins, 3.21 ERA, 1.09 WHIP), that was many seasons/injuries ago. If Minor were trying to convert back to a starter in the National League, perhaps we would be more intrigued. As a result, only look here if Minor makes a push for saves in the Rangers bullpen at some point during the season.

Folio [29.0 x 20.1 cm], 4 books in one volume, (6) ff., 35 ff., (1) f., 48 ff., (2) ff., (14) ff., 31 ff., with more than 300 woodcuts in the text, many of which are full page. Bound in contemporary limp vellum, manuscript title on spine, remnants of ties, red sprinkled edges. Minor soiling and edge wear to binding, front pastedown torn and unglued, book labels of the historian J. B. Bury (861-1927) and Michael Bury (on the front flyleaf) and of the 19th-century English bookseller Samuel Maynard (inside upper cover). Minor spotting and wrinkling to title, mended marginal tear to p.l. 4, the occasional contemporary annotation, minor toning to a few leaves, the occasional minor stain, small marginal burn hole at f. II.42, minor wrinkling and small marginal tear in first quire of Book II, final leaf backed and with moderate toning.
Very rare, with only one recorded copy in America (Harvard), the first complete edition (see below) of the sculptor and goldsmith Juan de Arfe y Villafañe’s (1535-1600) highly influential treatise on the practice of art and architectural theory extensively illustrated with more than 300 woodcuts. This work is important for being “the first printed and illustrated treatise on artistic anatomy” (Skaarup, 254) and the second published original architectural treatise composed in Spanish, following only Diego de Sagredo’s famed Medidas del Romano (1526). Remarkably (and rather mysteriously), some two dozen of Arfe’s anatomical woodcuts in this work are derived from drawings by Leonardo da Vinci (via intermediary copies), providing a fascinating example of how Leonardo’s graphic work circulated in the wider European art world centuries before his drawings were published (Skarrup, 353-4; Röhrl, pp. 40-96, 142-45). The De Varia Commensuracion para la Esculptura, y Architectura (1585-7) – which covers in its four books geometry, human anatomy, the proportions of quadrupeds & birds, as well as classical architecture & contemporary Spanish metalwork – was the “most frequently republished” and consulted treatise on artistic practice and theory in Spain up to the turn of the 19th century (see Bonet Correa, p. 145), appearing in ten editions, the early ones being very rare. Its continuing influence has been recognized by its widespread inclusion in libraries of early Hispanic artists on both sides of the Atlantic, characterized by a “masiva presencia de Vitrubios, Vignolas, Serlios y Arfes” (Soler I Fabregat, p. 149 and passim). The painters Diego Velázquez and Alonso Cano are but a few known to have owned a copy of Arfe (Fajardo, 88-90).
“The success of the Varia in Spain and in Latin America was extraordinary, being a compendium in a single volume of distinct fields of artistic and scientific knowledge, the borders of which were not at the time established with the same categorical precision as they are today” (Bonet Correa, 157). Books Two and Four are the two most historically influential parts of the Varia. Book Two, on human anatomy, is divided into four subchapters on proportion, osteology, myology and foreshortening of the human figure. Arfe claims here a number of influences, including Dürer’s treatise on proportion (1528) and Juan Valverde de Amusco’s interpretations of Vesalius’ Fabrica, but he also mentions the artists Pollaiuolo, Baccio Bandinelli, Raphael, Donatello, Mantegna, Michelangelo and the Spaniards Pedro Berruguete and Gaspar Bezerra (ff. 1v-2v). Arfe comes to the practice of artistic anatomy having spent time as a student training in the dissection theater under the direction of the famed physician Cosme de Medina (d. 1591) at the University of Salamanca (f. 25v), leading scholars to remark that “Nowhere in an Iberian context was the close, even dependent, relationship between anatomists and artists more evident than in Juan de Arfe y Villafañe’s Varia … the Libro segundo is a rare and unique source produced by an anatomically trained artist of the late Spanish Renaissance” (Skaarup, 246). According to Choulant, the Varia “should… be considered the earliest of the numerous works which dealt with anatomy for graphic and plastic artists…” (Choulant, p. 32).
Book Three of the Varia, on the proportions of animals, draws heavily from Conrad Gessner’s four-volume Historiae Animalium (1551-8) and includes, along with depictions of more common birds and quadrupeds, the images of an elephant, camels, ostrich, and Dürer’s famed rhinoceros. Arfe’s horse recalls the equestrian statues of the Italian Renaissance and serves as a reminder that establishing the precise proportions of the horse was also a preoccupation of such artists as Leonardo (in the Codex Huygens) and Sebald Beham (Proporcion der Ross, 1528).
In Book 4, Arfe writes of the Roman ruins in Spain, the architecture of Bramante, Baldassare Peruzzi, and Alberti, as well as modern Spanish architects and those goldsmiths whose work (on liturgical vessels) can be characterized as ‘micro-architecture,’ beginning with the metalwork of his grandfather. Arfe illustrates the classical Orders based on Serlio, adding a sixth ‘Attic’ order, and treats various aspects of architectural ornament. At the time of its publication, the Varia was only the second original architectural treatise composed in Spanish – following Diego de Sagredo’s famed Medidas del Romano (1526) and derivative works of translation such as Villalpando’s Tercero y Quarto libro de Serlio (1552), Zamorano’s Diez Libros de Architectura of Alberti (1582), Miguel de Urrea’s Vitruvio (1582) (Fajardo, 130; Bonet Correa, 158). “Arfe’s treatise, with its more timeless character, transcended its own era” (Bonet Correa, 158). Although the Medidas del Romano of Diego Sagredo appeared in three Spanish editions and further French and Portuguese translations, its emphasis on the ‘Plateresque’ style of architecture contributed to the waning of its popularity during the 17th century, even as the popularity of Arfe’s treatise increased.
Arfe extends Book 4 with a highly original discussion of metalwork, in which he aligns his own specialty with the more theoretically sophisticated field of pure architecture. His woodcuts of liturgical items (monstrance, chalice, aquamanile, crosier, crosses, candelabra, censer, etc.) are given a rigorous proportional treatment, with more sophisticated ‘micro-architecture’ custodias being shown in plan as well as in elevation, in the manner of full-scale buildings. Some of these illustrations depict surviving works by Arfe, while others are taken to be designs for lost or still unidentified pieces. It should be noted that while Arfe – despite the popularity of his treatise – perhaps was unable in his time to elevate his craft as a theoretically complex art alongside painting, sculpture and architecture, in recent times, art-historical research has vindicated his contention that metalwork of the highest quality should be prized not only for its pure material value and symbolic-liturgical importance, but also for its participation in the wider debates about the nature of representation, the supremacy of panting vs. sculpture vs. architecture, etc.
Books One, Two and Four of the Varia are dated 1585 on their colophons, while Book 3 is dated 1587. The first two books are occasionally found bound without Books 3 and 4, and it is surmised that the final two books appeared in 1587 (in spite of the 1585 date on Book 4), after an interruption in printing caused by a fire or a controversy about privileges, at which point the complete work was bound together as seen in the present copy (Fajardo, 72-2; Bonet Correa, 159).
Juan de Arfe was the third in a line of renowned metalworkers originally hailing from Germany – following his grandfather, Enrique, and father, Antonio – and is known to have been active in Valladolid, Sevilla, and Madrid. His custodias (monstrances) at the Cathedral of Sevilla and Avila remain celebrated works of Renaissance goldsmithing in the classical mode, showing the influence of Donatello and Bramante, among others. “Arfe’s last sculptural works of life-size human figures, such as the exquisite tomb monument for the Archbishop of Seville, Don Cristóbal de Rojas, reveal his development as a leading naturalist of the late Spanish Renaissance” (Skaarup, 253; see principally Sanz, and Fajardo for Arfe’s artistic activity). In addition to the Varia, Arfe published Quilatador de plata, oro y piedras (1572) and Descripción de la traça y ornato de la custodia de plata de la Sancta Yglesia de Sevilla (1587), both short tracts on metalwork.
The present copy, intriguingly, carries the apparent signature of Arphe himself on the bottom margin of the title page. This exact signature is also present in the same location in copies now at the Biblioteca Nacional de España and the Biblioteca de Castilla y Léon (effaced), a detail which might shed further light on the early publication history of the Varia.
* Palau 16055; Adams A2003; CCBE s. XVI A2101; Salvá 2556; L. Choulant, Anatomic Illustration, M. Frank, trans., pp. 218-21; J. L. C. Fajardo, Perceptiva gráfica de Juan de Arfe: Análisis y transcendecia de su Teoría Artística sobre la figura humana, esp. pp. 72-; María Jesús Sanz, Juan de Arfe Villafañe y la Custodia de la Catedral de Sevilla; José Carlos Brasas Edigo, “Juan de Arfe in Valladolid,” in María Jesús Sanz, ed., Centenario de la Muerte de Juan de Arfe (1603-2003), pp. 67-92; Antonio Bonet Correa, “La Obra Teórica de Juan de Arfe,” in María Jesús Sanz, ed., Centenario de la Muerte de Juan de Arfe (1603-2003), pp. 143-71; B. O. Skaarup, Anatomy and Anatomists in Early Modern Spain; B. Röhrl, Zeichnungen von Leonardo da Vinci als Buchillustrationen, 1509 bis 1600; H.-W. Kruft, A History of Architectural Theory from Vitruvius to the Present.

The Fellowship pairs a select number of highly skilled young professionals with leading NGOs and social enterprises in India in order to accelerate impact and create effective projects that are replicable, scalable, and sustainable. Through ten months of service and fieldwork, Fellows gain knowledge of development on the ground in the fields of education, livelihoods, public health, and social enterprise, honing and harnessing their growing skills as change agents capable of effecting lasting change.
Applicants must be a citizen / permanent resident of the United States or citizen of India and between the ages of 21 and 34 in September of the year of application. Applicants must have also completed an undergraduate degree prior to September 1st in the year of application.

African/Lake Malawi cichlids have very specialised feeding habits that have been adapted so that they can survive in their natural habitat. However aquarists tend to make it easier for themselves by getting readily prepared flakes and pellets. But you will have to take into account whether your fish are herbivores or ‘piscivores’ (feed on other fish). Mbuna species are normally herbivore, so they will mainly feed on the algae that grows on rocks, so they must be fed on plant food. These fish cannot digest animal fat and will suffer from indigestion if fed on it.
On the other hand most Lake Malawi cichlids will eat small crustaceans like Brine Shrimps.
A lot of cichlid breeders make up their own homemade food, made from chopped up shrimp and peas.
Thaw out the shrimps and peas and mince them finely in a food mixer, then add the vitamin drops. Finally pour in the dissolved gelatine. The gelatine will bind the mixture, producing a thick paste after it has cooled. Place the paste into a freezer bag, flatten and then freeze. Now this nutritious fish food can easily be cut up into convenient pieces, and given to your fish.
A wide range of foods are commercially available, like flakes and pellets. It has been noticed that cichlids feed very enthusiastically on flakes, while pellets sink to the bottom, so any other inhabitants like catfish can get it. The choice is yours.
A further important source of food for your African cichlids, are frozen foods like white and black mosquito larvae, brine shrimps and krill.
Mixes including beef heart and frozen RED mosquito larvae are not suitable for Lake Malawi Cichlids.
How often you feed your Lake Malawi cichlids depends on their age. Fry (Newly born fish) must be fed more frequently and in smaller portions than older fish. Fry should literally be swimming in food in order to grow quickly and develop properly.
Herbivores are more used to feeding in small portions over the day, so feeding them once a day will not be enough. And you must take care to only put in the right amount of food. It should take about 1 minute for all of the food to be eaten.
Adult cichlids should be fed 2-3 times a day while the fry should be fed 5-7 times a day. If the fish are fed regularly then their aggression should be reduced.
Never feed your fish just after you have switched the light on as they will need reach their full levels of daytime activity. The African cichlids rest at night and it takes them about thirty minutes to become fully active. And for similar reasons, you should not give them their final feed just before turning the light out.
If you don’t think that you will be able to feed your fish at the correct times each day, then you should consider installing an automatic feeding machine.
It is important not to overfeed your fish as your cichlids will consume anything, and in huge quatities if they can, which can harm their health. Healthy African Cichlids will always await their food eagerly.
If an adult cichlid is eating poorly or refusing food then don’t feed them at all for one full day afterwards as it may be overfed. If they still fail to eat after the day off, then they may have contracted a disease.
They are. Were they cichlids or tropical fish? Thank you for your comment by the way.
I love aquarium fish and used to keep quite a few of them. They are a lot of fun and beautiful to watch.

Here are your morning links!
Janczak looked solid in his second start since returning from injury.
TCU broke through in the sixth inning with a pair of run. Jake Guenther and Alex Isola singled to open the inning. A wild pitch had both runners in scoring position and Johnny Rizer delivered a two-run single up the middle to make it a 6-2 ballgame. The Frogs didn’t go quietly, scoring a run on a Zach Humphreys groundout in the eighth. With two outs in the ninth, the Frogs put the tying run on base with walks to Josh Watson and Isola around a Guenther base hit. UTA closer Andrew Gross wiggled off the hook with a ground out to end the game. Jared Janczak (0-2) tossed 4 1/3 innings. He allowed six runs (two earned) on six hits, walked one and struck out two. Haylen Green and Matt Rudis allowed one combined runner over the last 3 2/3 innings of the game. The pair fanned seven.
The defensive end position is loaded, name-wise, but not very experienced.
This is a spot with a ton of turnover and, in turn, opportunities for new faces. Mathis, who some have compared to Jerry Hughes when it comes to potential, appears to be on his way to a starting role after continuing to earn rave reviews through spring. Patterson hinted that 2019 could finally be Bowen’s time too, so don’t take your eyes off the 6-foot-4 Byron Nelson High School product when fall camp arrives down the stretch.
The cornerback would fill a massive need with Jeff Gladney and Julius Lewis set to graduate.
Jenkins is getting recruited by Jeremy Modkins mostly because he’s the cornerbacks coach for the Frogs. However, Jenkins says he’s built a strong relationship with each of the coaches on staff.
Jenkins was hosted on his visit by redshirt freshman Atanza Vongor. The four-star says he got along with the defensive back as well as the rest of the team.
Equestrian has put together a solid season.
TCU News: Joe Broadnax’s career is over, will Justin Rogers play this year?

Dinners for Six is an awesome opportunity to connect with others at Lighthouse!
Sign up as a family, couple, or single. Singles can sign up with a friend or as an individual and we will pair you up with another single of the same gender.
During the following three months, take turns hosting a dinner for the others in your group (each pair will host once or meet at a restaurant). Usually, someone will provide the main course and others will bring a side dish, salad, dessert, etc. Paired singles can decide who will host.
Thank you! Can’t wait to connect!
You are invited to our Multi-Congregation Good Friday Service held at Lighthouse. Annually, Faith in Christ Fellowship in Eagan, Spirit of Truth in Burnsville and Lighthouse gather together to worship and remember the cross of Jesus Christ. The cross brings us together!
We like to call this day Resurrection Sunday! He is Risen indeed! We would consider it an honor to host you and your family for this special Sunday celebrating that Jesus is Alive . Death has lost it's sting and now we can have relationship with our Heavenly Father and be FREE from sin. Oh Hallelujah. Please plan to join us at 10am or in Spanish at 1pm.
We offer groceries at no charge on the typically on 4th Monday of each month to people in the community. Come in for a warm meal, prayer and receive fresh fruit and veggies, meat, eggs and bread to take home. Each month the food supply varies. Doors open at 6:00 pm. Guests should not arrive earlier than 5:30pm.
We are excited and honored to host the MN Teen Challenge Choir on Sunday, May 5th at 10am. Ope you will join us and bring a friend for a morning of music and testimonies of freedom from addictions that will inspire and bring hope!
Sunday, May 12th we will have a special time in the 10am service to dedicate children. For those who have little ones that you would like to dedicated to the Lord, we invite you to sign up below!
Topgolf is the premier entertainment destination in Brooklyn Center.
We will meet at Lighthouse at 2pm to carpool. Play is from roughly 3-4:30pm. Cost is estimate of $15/pp to play. You are on your own for food. We will have separate golf bays for men and women. High School age students through adults are welcome. Sign up below by May 16th.
Come with us on a Mission Trip to Haiti from August 19-26, 2019 with Healing Haiti.
Costs: Base cost of trip is $875.00 which us due no later than July 19th. Each person is responsible for their own airfare (roughly $650 to $850 and Lighthouse is looking into pricing through an agent) All payments will be submitted to Lighthouse.
Additional costs: Mandatory insurance that costs $29.00A $10.00 entry into the country. To register click on the link below. When the link opens click on I don't have a managed missions account. Follow instructions. When prompted to choose a trip pick Lighthouse Church. By registering you are agreeing to go on the trip and a$ 100.00 non-refundable deposit should be made to Lighthouse as soon as possible.
(3285 144th St W in Rosemount) on Sunday, April 14th at 10am. We sure hope you will be there!
Women are invited to attend the Going Beyond Simulcast with Priscilla Shirer. This event will be hosted at Lighthouse on Saturday, April 6. The cost for the day is $25. Use https://pushpay.com/g/worldwidelighthouse?src=hpp to pay by entering $25 as the amount and selecting this event.
All those who are 55+ are welcome to join the JOY Group for coffee, pie, and fellowship at Baker’s Square. Sign up so we know how much space to reserve at the restaurant!
Our active adults are having a bowling outing at the Lakeville Bowling Alley on Co Rd 46 just west of I-35.
The Community Center is located at 13885 South Robert Trail. Basically on South Robert’s Trail or Hwy 3 just north of Rosemount High School and the Sport Dome.
Kyle is the Founder/CEO of TimeToRevive based out of Dallas, Texas. He earned a Masters in Biblical Studies from Dallas Theological Seminary and completed his Doctorate degree at Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary, specializing in Outreach and Discipleship.
FMSC is an international organization dedicated to providing nutritious meals to children worldwide. We will help pack meals to be sent overseas.
Through video teaching, group discussion, and personal Bible study, Pastor James MacDonald will urge you to live out Paul's instruction in 1 Corinthians 16:13-14: Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. Men will be challenged to take hold of their God-given role.
Inviting all guys to gather for pizza, get to know our new worship pastor Paul Mutebi, have a time of praise and prayer.
Our worship center will be open for prayer on Friday, January 4th at 9pm until Saturday, January 5th at 6pm. Feel free to tell others and stop in to a time with the Lord. We will have soft worship music playing. We are also in need of hosts to take shifts to oversee the Burn. Please sign up below!
Just Older Youth invites everyone 55+ to a Christmas Lights Tour on Sunday, December 30th. The cost is $5 and you can sign up below. We hope you’ll join us!
SOLD OUT! We are excited for all those who purchased ticket, but are sorry to say that we are SOLD OUT. Therefore, we will not be selling tickets at the door.
Come and worship Jehovah and pray for the peace of Israel with us.
130th Anniversary Dream Team Needed!
When did YOU first attend a service or event at St John’s or Lighthouse?
Through the years there has been babies born and lives crossing over into their heavily home, baptisms, child dedications, confirmations, weddings, LifeLine, Celebration Athletic Games, Alpha, AWANA, our Leprechaun Days Block Party, Explorer’s Child Center, etc … people coming and people going. We have experienced growth and challenges, times of plenty and times of need… and persevered. We have worshipped with a choir accompanied by an organ and band with drums and guitars. People have made friendships here. Many pastors have shepherded this flock through the years and we continue to pass on our Christian faith from generation to generation. Through it all the Lord has been faithful!And YOU have played a part in our history, so that’s why we are inviting YOU to celebrate with us on Sunday, October 14th.
Consider joining us for our 10am service on October 14thas we will celebrate with special songs, memories, guests from the past and a message from Pastor Bill titled: Where have we Been and Where are we Going? FREE donuts and bagels will be provided at 9:30am.
Then from 3-6pm we will have a REUNION PARTY!
This party will be under our big tent and will include food, fun for kids, music by former worship leaders ;Peder Eide and Josh Edwards along with archives to view from over the years and our vision for the future.This will be a great time for those who have had their lives touched by the Lord over the years to come back and eat and gather with friends. Let’s celebrate God’s faithfulness together!
FMSC is an international organization dedicated to providing nutritious meals to children worldwide. We will help pack meals to be sent overseas. This event will be done in conjunction with Lighthouse Students, JOY (Just Older Youth) Group and Cultivate (Young Adults).
Meet at Eagan FMSC before 6pm.
FMSC needs an email address for every participant, so please sign up below!
We are a group of young people who desire to grow in truth, intimacy with God, and relationship with one another. We meet on the first and third Friday of every month in order to cultivate an atmosphere of worship and friendship. If you are between the age of 18 and 30-something, we would like to personally invite you to come and be a part of Lighthouse Cultivate. Call/text Phillip @ 870-55-7550 for details on meeting location.
Students and parents are invited to meet in the Life Center after our Sunday morning service to participate in a discussion about our mission and strategy for the 18-19 school year. Snacks will be provided.
JOY (just older youth) are invited to a picnic in the park at Crystal Lake on Lac Lavon on Monday, August 13th from 11am-2pm!
It's time for some fun and fellowship for the women of Lighthouse on Sunday, August 12th from 4:00 - 6:15 (arrive at 3:45). You will be instructed and taught by a local artist and go home with a beautiful painting! $35.00 per person, includes: paint, a 16"x 20" canvas, easels, brushes, and aprons. Snacks and drinks will be provided. Sign up is a MUST to hold your spot!! Please pay at lighthousemn.church, LH mobile app, or at the door.

Oracle ILOM CLI shell (default) – The Oracle ILOM shell provides access to Oracle ILOM's features and functions through a CLI.
Oracle ILOM web interface – The Oracle ILOM web interface supports the same set of features and functions as the shell.
Note - Unless indicated otherwise, all examples of interaction with the SP are depicted with Oracle ILOM shell commands.
Note - The CLI includes a feature that enables you to access Oracle Solaris fault manager commands, such as fmadm, fmdump, and fmstat, from within the Oracle ILOM shell. This feature is referred to as the Oracle ILOM faultmgmt shell. For more information about the Oracle Solaris fault manager commands, refer to Server Administration and the Oracle Solaris documentation.
You can log into multiple SP accounts simultaneously and have separate Oracle ILOM shell commands executing concurrently under each account.
SER MGT – Connect a terminal device (such as an ASCII terminal or laptop with terminal emulation) to the serial management port.
Set up your terminal device for 9600 baud, 8 bit, no parity, 1 stop bit and no handshaking. Use a null-modem configuration (transmit and receive signals crossed over to enable DTE-to-DTE communication). The crossover adapters supplied with the server provide a null-modem configuration.
NET MGT – Connect this port to an Ethernet network. This port requires an IP address. By default, the port is configured for DHCP, or you can assign an IP address.
Decide which interface to use, the Oracle ILOM CLI or the Oracle ILOM web interface.
Open an SSH session and connect to the SP by specifying its IP address.
The Oracle ILOM default username is root, and the default password is changeme.
Copyright (c) 2010 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Note - To provide optimum server security, change the default server password.
The Oracle ILOM prompt (->) indicates that you are accessing the SP with the Oracle ILOM CLI.
Perform Oracle ILOM commands that provide the diagnostic information you need.
show command – Displays information about individual FRUs. See Display FRU Information (show Command).
show faulty command – Displays environmental, POST-detected, and PSH-detected faults. See Check for Faults (show faulty Command).
Note - You can use fmadm faulty in the faultmgmt shell as an alternative to the show faulty command. See Check for Faults (fmadm faulty Command).
clear_fault_action property of the set command – Manually clears PSH-detected faults. See Clear Faults (clear_fault_action Property).

Class A Burn Prop - Stove Simulator With Overhead Burn Hood - Fire Facilities, Inc.
The stove simulator assembly consists of 1/4” thick prime painted angles and 12 gage stainless steel panels bolted together with 3/8” diameter bolts through pre-punched holes for ease of assembly. The prime painted 19W4 x 1 1/2” x 3/16” bar grate is designed to hold class “A” materials 1’-4” above the floor surface. Dimensions for this prop shall be approximately 4’-5 1/2” x 4’-5 1/2” x 6’-7” tall and shall resemble a commercial grade stove. The overhead bar grate hood of this unit is 2’-11” x 4’-5 1/2” and provides another area to hold class “A” materials for a secondary fire. A sliding/removable stainless steel range top with large ventilation holes shall also be provided. The range top helps to limit the number of pallets trainees can place in the unit by covering approximately half of the unit.

Sperm whale. Sea Guap Photo.
Sperm whale and Olympic swimmer Mikako Kotani. Sea Guap Picture.
Sperm whale. Stock Photography of Sea Guap.
Sperm whale social group. Photograph of Sea Guap.
Sperm whale blowhole (left side of head). Sea Guap Photos.
Sperm whales. Sea Guap Image.
Sperm whales diving. Professional stock photos of Sea Guap.
Mature male (bull) sperm whale. Pictures of Sea Guap.
Sperm whale blows in front of Tokyo Broadcasting System film crew. Sea Guap Photo.
WHITE juvenile sperm whale in social group. Sea Guap Picture.
Sperm whales diving. Stock Photography of Sea Guap.
Sperm whale. Photograph of Sea Guap.

GreenSpaces is an undertaking by the experienced management team of the Paharpur Business Centre & Software Technology Incubator Park (PBC-STIP) and EcoTrust Capital Advisors. Established in 1990, PBC-STIP is a Government of India approved Infrastructure service provider and a private Software Technology Park (STP).
PBC-STIP is one of the first fully serviced office spaces in the country, based on “Green building” and “instant office” concepts. It provides 50,000 square feet of office space in various modules, operates over 28 different in-house support services, and is one of the most sought after commercial spaces in the National Capital Region (NCR). Clients have included – Canon, Microsoft, Intel, Shell, 3M, KFC, Mobil, British Telecom, etc.
It has achieved five international certifications – ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; ISO 22000:2005; OHSAS 18001:2007 & SA 8000:2001. PBC-STIP is also a participant to the UN Global Compact. It is rated by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Government of India as one of the healthiest buildings in Delhi to work in.

San Diego Tropicals offers interior plant design and maintenance service for commercial and residential properties. We specialize in design and installation of live interior plants to help make your home or office beautiful. We will help to create the image you desire through exceptional service. Our employees are professional and knowledgeable and will ensure that your plants are healthy and vibrant.
Copyright © 2019 sandiegotropicals.com. All Rights Reserved. Designed by JoomlArt.com. Joomla! is Free Software released under the GNU General Public License.

Queen Elizabeth II has always been a strong champion of British couture - especially in her stunning 50s fashions. Her charm, confidence and regal style captured the imagination of the American public when she hosted the President and Mrs. Eisenhower at the British Embassy in Washington, D.C. Wearing a magnificent pale green crinoline evening dress - hand-embroidered with sequins, pearls, beads and diamante - she regally displayed her passion for fashion. Now, in honor of that historic occasion, The Hamilton Collection recreates her royal look with the Reflections of Queen Elizabeth II Figurine, an exclusive, limited-edition first-ever.
Every inch of this handcrafted figurine is skillfully crafted and painted by hand, from her regal pose and sculptured fur wrap to the intricate bas-relief floral pattern on her gown. Soft pearlescent and brilliant metallic gold paints accentuate the bas-relief to wonderfully reflect the design of the original dress, while metallic silver paint and glitter accents adorn her tiara and jewelry. And if all that weren't enough, her breathtaking gown is lavished with 90 individually hand-set Swarovski® crystals - like the ones the queen still uses to accent her gorgeous ensembles today! A beveled-edge, polished mirror base, graced with the queen's golden royal crest, further reflects the beauty of this glorious Royal Family collectible, which includes a Collector's Card featuring details about the iconic gown it depicts.

, we choices the very best choices along with best quality simply for you, and now this photos is one of photographs selections inside our finest pictures gallery in relation to Free Resume Templates Samples. I hope you can enjoy it.
published through onlinesna at 2017-08-27 05:32:42. To view all graphics inside Free Resume Templates Samples photos gallery remember to comply with this web page link.
Do not forget to explore the next photo gallery, which also includes the Free Resume Templates Samples Beautiful Line Cv Template Sample Line Resume Template Free Luxury 35 Best picture showed above. If you have any thoughts, questions or just want to say hello to other people, please do not hestitate to submit your opinion/ideas via the following comment form.

Speed restriction of 10mph within the site.
Parking is restricted to the gravel car park areas only.
NO entrance whatsoever to restricted areas of the farm for safety reasons.
Strictly NO SMOKING in the wigwams or any other indoor facilities.
Chinese lanterns are dangerous to site and countryside and are not allowed to be used.
The management reserves the right to enter accommodation at any time for service or repairs.
Your holiday is non refundable under any circumstance once your booking has been confirmed.
Guests are requested to arrive no earlier than 2.30pm and must vacate accommodation by 10.30am.
Please respect other visitors keeping noise to a minimum especially after 10.00pm.
Day visitors are welcomed at no extra charge but must observe any site rules and are not allowed to stay overnight.
No furniture or furnishings whatsoever to be taken out of wigwams at any time.
Only bbq and fire pit supplied to be used wood can be purchased when needed.
Any breakages must be reported immediately and paid for to the satisfaction of the management.
Leave utilities as you would like to find.
Any belongings left behind in accommodation must be claimed within two weeks of departure.
All accommodation provided at Secret Valley is inspected on your departure, please do not spoil the pleasure of the next visitors by leaving the accommodation dirty.
Please ensure pets are kept on leads at all times and are not to foul apart from in designated area.
Please do not leave pets unattended and not let them annoy others.
The management reserves the right to refuse admission or eject from the park any dog which it considers inappropriate as a family pet or a danger to others.
The management reserves the right to terminate the booking of any persons whose conduct is detrimental to the campsite or other visitors.
All persons staying at Secret Valley or visiting use facilities provided entirely at their own risk, Secret Valley cannot accept any liability for loss, damage or accident to persons or property.
In the event of any serious breach of the above conditions, Secret Valley reserves the right to terminate a holiday and ask offenders to leave.
Remember that you will be staying on a working farm with live animals and potentially dangerous farm equipment amongst other hazards, therefore observe the no entry signs and DO NOT enter any areas of the farm that are not permitted.
In the event of damages that occur to the Owner’s property, buildings, and accommodation or to any fixtures or fittings the client will be responsible for reimbursement in full. The Owner will obtain a quotation for any remedial work, and by agreement with the client, accept the quotation that will most closely restore the item to its original condition.
The property has a pond and lakes, which represents a potential water hazard. You will be made familiar with this hazard when you view the venue and it will be your responsibility to highlight this hazard to your guests. All children are the responsibility of their parents; please watch them at all times!

Cam Newton #1 of the Carolina Panthers indicates a first down against the New York Giants in the fourth quarter during their game at Bank of America Stadium on October 7, 2018 in Charlotte, North Carolina.
Reid, who signed a one-year contract with the Panthers last week, claimed at the beginning of the offseason that he wasn't receiving interest from teams due to his decision to kneel during the national anthem. Reid informed media on Monday that he is moving forward in his collusion case against the National Football League and that he is considering ways to continue his protest against social injustice. I'm a football player. "But that's not the way it works".
"Eric knows what's best for Eric and what Eric needs to do".
Regardless of Reid's beliefs, the Panthers (2-1) are excited to have the 2013 Pro Bowler, who is expected to start at safety after Da'Norris Searcy was placed on injured reserve last week with a concussion. As new safety Eric Reid gets his legs under him and further comprehends the playbook, his impact should grow.
"We have great players in this locker room and we've accepted him with open arms", Newton said. "I publicly declared that I didn't agree with his comments and I asked anybody that was interested if they wanted clarification [to] go to Odell because he's a big man".
That's why it shouldn't be a huge surprise when Newton flattened New York Giants linebacker Kareem Martin when the Panthers ran a trick play and Newton turned into a blocker.
These are the key players for the Carolina Panthers to secure a win over the New York Giants and to keep pace in the NFC South.
Now, we don't know whether Bruce was watching these last few plays - but based on how down and out he looks here. we're just gonna say it's very possible.
Newton is probably the most multitalented quarterback in the NFL. That's not something the Giants are running with the slow-footed Eli Manning at the helm.
"I didn't have any cool "Superman" celebration like Cam", Gano said of Newton, who celebrates touchdowns by pretending to reveal the "S" on his chest. He successfully connected from 64 and 65 yards at J.J. Tate High School in Cantonment, Florida.

Applied CSR24 is the industry's first online customer self-service software that connects your customers to information in your management system, so you can service your customers when and how they want.
"Applied CSR24 is an innovative tool"
I love that Applied CSR24 integrates the client right into the system. The client is able to get real time details, information, and action on their account. This tool really projects an agency into the innovative world. With everyone, especially younger people, going to their smartphones to get things done, having Applied CSR24 really integrates your agency into their lives.
As with anything new, this program will need tweaks and adjustments. But overall it is off to a fantastic start. Applied is great with implementing new ideas, suggestions, and improvements on a regular basis.
I would 100% recommend this product to you. Even though it is not perfect, Applied is constantly taking feedback and improving this tool. With the way people do business in the world, CSR24 is honestly a fantastic tool to take your agency to the next level.
Using CSR24, your agency will profit by having a tool for the client to use directly. Instead of having a person take a phone call, email, or request directly from the insured. The client can go into CSR24 and request a change, download a policy, and do so many things that the live CSR would usually do. With every improvement made to CSR24, it is less that your employees will have to do in the office.
"Great product for clients- convenient for Applied users"
The client interface is very easy to navigate and requires minimal training. The ease of renewing certificates is also a useful component- especially when it comes to emailing them out of CSR24.
Not enough integration with Applied Epic- would be useful to have information loaded into CSR24 to transfer back into Epic the way it does the other direction. Some other little tweaks I'd make, but overall, does a great job at file transmission to clients and giving them COI issuing capabilities.
This solves the issue of policy transmission via email- instead of having to send encrypted emails (which everyone hates) we are able to send those documents through a secure server. It will end up saving CSRs time at renewal of certificates as well. It's given us the added benefit of saving paper also- emailing more and more certificates and mailing less.
What Other Insurance solution do you use?
"Is a great way for your insureds to access material on their own without you. It is a huge timesaver"
I love how the insureds can go on and print a certificate themselves. This really helps with bigger accounts that need a certificate everyday. It helps save time and the insured like it because they have some control themselves. They can also see there polices, auto ID cards, and more!
It is kind of complicated to figure out at first. It is not the easier system to use. I believe the software itself can be easier to understand and easier to use, for the insured and the agency.
I would recommend this product. Again, it saves so much time and the insurer really likes being able to go in when they want to look at something.
It really saves with time, which is super important to us. We get a lot loss phone calls on easy stuff like certificates and we can spend more time on helping other customers and quoting more.
"Decent program for COI needs"
I like that the customer is able to request COI's. I also enjoy the fact that previous COI's and holders are easily accessible and easily changed. It is great being able to send a certificate by fax or email right from the system. No more having to save the document and them email. You can get it done in one swoop. Pretty user friendly as well.
I dislike having to set up an evidence from the start, There are many components that have to be manually entered, which can be time consuming.
I am solving the issue of having multiple certificate requests to complete and being able to easily complete them and send them by fax or email without having to leave my desk.
I dislike the user friendliness. Includes a good amount of extra steps in creating evidences and certificates.
Work on user friendliness and elimination of steps.
We are solving how we issue and request certificates and evidences.
I absolutely love CSR24. It has made life so much easier!
I dislike the delay in dropping files in Applied and them appearing in CSR24.
"Awesome Syatem for issuing COI’s"
Allows clients to issue coi’s if need be. Also renewal of coi’s are a breeze.
Needs detailed training to run not easy to use without any training.
Sends renewal coi’s out electronicslly wirh fax or email address therefore saving postage.
* We monitor all Applied CSR24 reviews to prevent fraudulent reviews and keep review quality high. We do not post reviews by company employees or direct competitors. Validated reviews require the user to submit a screenshot of the product containing their user ID, in order to verify a user is an actual user of the product.
Hi there! Are you looking to implement a solution like Applied CSR24?

Far Left Van Jones Admits that Trump Can Win and Gives Major Warning to Democrats - Video - Stumpin' For Trump!
CNN contributor and former Obama aide Van Jones put out a warning to his fellow Democrats on Friday: Donald Trump is probably going to win the White House.
In the Facebook video, Jones credited Trump’s ability to understand and use social media and reality television as well as his appeal to black voters as reasons he will likely win the White House in November.
Jones likened Trump to Franklin Roosevelt, John Kennedy, Ronald Reagan, and Barack Obama in the sense that they all excelled in a new medium that no other politician could easily master.
“Just like FDR changed the rules of the game because he mastered radio, he was able to take radio and just completely master that — then you had JFK and JFK was able to master television — new medium, new master, new president,” Jones said.
He continued to detail how Trump has been able to use his celebrity to appeal to parts of the Democratic base, especially black voters.
“If only 70 percent don’t like Donald Trump, that means 30 percent are open to his argument, if he gets half of those, he’s president,” Jones said.
A Public Policy Polling report released on Monday showed Jones might be correct in his opinion that Trump is winning over large segments of the Democratic Party’s most loyal voting bloc. The poll showed that in the swing state of Ohio, Trump would garner 15 percent of the African American vote against Clinton, with another 11 percent undecided.
That is huge increase from the 4 percent of the black vote Mitt Romney received in Ohio during the last presidential election.
Well, well, well, even the ex-Obama-Czar-self-proclaimed communist understands and sees how Trump can win and be our next President! Wow! I’m a bit impressed, but I wouldn’t trust Van Jones with a lollipop either! Trump is pulling in some of the more modest democrats over to vote for him, and with the help of these two infamous Internet sensations, Diamond and Silk, created a place for them to do just that, called “Ditch and Switch”, for anyone who either voted democrat all these horrible years and now sees the “light” in voting Trump, or whom never voted before and wants to sign up as soon as possible to exercise their constitutional right to vote, they can go to Diamond and Silk’s website, and sign up. They can help direct you to the right place. Thanks, Van Jones, for your analysis of a Trump win, and he can do this, if every ethnic group would just open their eyes to see what the last 7 years have really done to them; not for the “freebies” they get, for as long as they are listed poor, they can get the freebies, but is that what you really want? Just the freebies that this administration “gives” you? And where do you think that money comes from? Thin air? The upper clouds? Take heed, people, realize, that in history, in other parts of the world, where “freebies” were a given because the people were poor and destitute, they were “controlled” by that government as long as they did the government’s bidding, they got the freebies, so they just didn’t work or even try looking. Then the government puts them to work, moves them to high rise buildings, stuffs other families with them in small apartments, and makes them go to work in plants, day in day out, but they get free housing, free food (which is rationed out periodically), and free stuff, but then it gets pulled because the government can’t afford any more free stuff (phones, ipads, ect.). Take heed, this has happened, and it can happen again. Trump will get you back to a job you want and be proud of working because he’ll limit the regulations of businesses who hire workers who want to work, and not hire out to foreigners either. You deserve a job, you’ll get a job. Get off the freebie stuff because it’s not going to last you a lifetime. Socialism only lasts long enough before the gov’t runs out of money to sustain it.
Commentary: Are polls underestimating Trump’s support?

Sometimes it is the things you see every day which inspire you. A colour or texture catches your eye, and you're hooked. The itch starts, and you find you have to paint it. Whatever it might be. This happened for me a couple of years ago, when I was working with the lovely Vital Veg at Midmar. Every week I packed beautiful, colourful veg into veg bags for customers. Some of the veg came home with me. And some of that came with me to the weekly art class I was attending.
Another influence fed into this process. A few years ago, I attended a workshop with Sofia Perina-Miller, whose work I also greatly admire. She paints fabulous striking flowers, as well as many other subjects. She showed us how to paint directly onto paper, without doing any initial drawing. This was an entirely new experience for me - and I found that I loved the freedom of it! Instead of feeling constrained by the pencil lines, I was "free" to paint directly, loosely, using vibrant colours, which resulted in more lively work. Sofia usually adds meticulous pen and ink details to her work. I left mine as they were; as I may have mentioned before I have rather limited patience!
There is always a certain amount of fear involved in painting this way. I had to learn to be brave, to trust that the colours I was choosing and the marks I was making were strong and true and confident. This was no time for fiddling around with details and tentative marks. Before I started, I would look carefully at the veg, get a feel for the overall shape and size and proportions, the main colours, the shadows on the paper. Really look, and get a feel for it. It helped to stand up, to have everything I needed to hand and to just do it, quickly. I love this way of working; writing this makes me want to do some more of this kind of work.
Some of my veg paintings are available as digital downloads from my Etsy shop.
Various items (prints, mugs, phone covers, tote bags etc.) sporting my veg paintings can also be found on Redbubble.
I often make soup. At the organic veg farm where I work part-time, we take it in turns to bring a pot of soup to the veg shed on the day we pack veg bags for customers. One of the things I love about soup is that it is very forgiving. You can throw just about anything into it and it is usually pretty tasty and good. (The only exception seems to be kiwi fruit, which a friend reminded me of today - that did not turn out well. I do quite often put apple or pear in soup though, lends a lovely sweetness). Most of us who takes turns with the soup pot admit to making "bottom of the fridge" soup, with whatever is left and is maybe looking a little tired. Some celery, onion, a courgette, a bit of broccoli, the odd kale leaf and some carrots - add ham stock, a tin of chopped tomatoes and hey presto, it's minestrone! Minestrone is one of my favourites and yet I don't recall having it at home when I was a child. We had broth (not a favourite; I disliked the gloopy texture of the barley), and homemade tomato soup with lots of carrots and was it sago, perhaps, to thicken it? My favourite was cucumber soup, creamy and buttery and delicious. My dad loved consomme, hot or cold (brown meaty jelly with chopped chives on top). We had chicken soup too, made using a boiling fowl, with rice and leeks and chopped parsley from the garden to garnish it. We used to laugh at Mum, who would make soup from the peapods after the sweet garden peas had been shelled from them. "Is that grass soup?" we would ask. I quite often produce "green soup" of slightly dubious origins myself, these days, so I can now appreciate the greenness of her ways.
It's a real comfort food. And not just the eating of it, or supping of it, but the act of making it. I remember retreating to the kitchen of my mother-in-law's house the day after my father-in-law died very suddenly, over 25 years ago now. We went to stay with her, with our six month old son. To try to help; to organise the funeral, make endless cups of tea for people who came in to offer condolences; to try and make sense of it all. All I could do was make soup. I chopped and stirred and added stock. I left it to simmer, tasted it, ladled it into bowls for whoever wanted some. It seemed to help. It helped me, to feel I was providing comfort, of sorts. I think I maybe even baked. There was comfort in it for me too. Just the rhythm of washing and peeling and chopping, stirring and tasting and serving. Life going on, in some small way.

The World Poker Tour announced on Wednesday that it has inked a partnership with partypoker LIVE to host as many as seven events in Europe and Canada for the next four years. The first event in the series will be at the Playground Poker Club in Montreal in October 2018 in conjunction with the WPT Montreal stop at the same time.
The rest of the schedule will be revealed at a later date, but the World Poker Tour has said that locations will include Sochi, Russia and the Dusk Till Dawn poker club in the UK. Both the WPT and partypoker have already worked together at the Playground Poker Club and Dusk Till Dawn, having previously hosted the partypoker WPT Canadian Spring Championship, partypoker.net WPT Montreal, and partypoker.net WPT Playground at the former and partypoker WPT UK at the latter.
The World Poker Tour is proud to partner with partypoker LIVE on this new, four-year global initiative. The partnership allows the WPT to continue its dedication of bringing world-class poker to people’s lives, and we are honored to have John Duthie and the entire team at partypoker LIVE sharing in this value. Together with partypoker LIVE, we look forward to elevating the game for all levels.
partypoker LIVE, as the name would make one assume, is the live tournament extension of partypoker. It has also previously established relationships with the venues listed above. The World Series of Poker Circuit Playground – of which partypoker LIVE is a part – is currently running, MILLIONS UK will be held at Dusk Till Dawn in a month, and Sochi has been featured multiple times on the tour.
Partypoker online players will be able to use partypoker LIVE Dollars acquired in satellites at the live events; that the events will be co-branded with the World Poker Tour will have no effect on this. LIVE Dollars are pretty cool – they can be used for pretty much anything having to do with the partypoker LIVE stops, including buy-ins, hotel rooms, and travel.

Meditation is one of the most powerful and meaningful practices we undertake in spiritual life. It is a means for self-development and transformation.
The Buddhist tradition offers rich and subtle teachings for the practice of meditation leading to full realization of spiritual and human potential.
Both strands of practice are part of a Buddhist path. A practitioner generally begins with establishing a foundation of calmness and concentration, making the mind pliable and the heart receptive to a further stage of investigation and reflection on the nature of existence. In the course of a consistent meditation practice, many realizations and changes in the psyche will occur naturally along the way.
We begin by cultivating deep attention and kindness towards ourselves, then in turn, towards a good friend, someone we do not know well, someone with whom we have difficulty, and finally, all beings equally, without preference.
No matter what one hopes to gain from starting a meditation practice, benefits will come. Each time we meditate is a new experience, a new opportunity for greater depth of awareness and positive growth.

Earned the Riding Steady (Level 8) badge! Earned the Photogenic Brew (Level 13) badge! Earned the Brewery Pioneer (Level 9) badge! Earned the Here Come the Vikings! (Level 8) badge!
City-Spurs. 3-3 samanlagt til pause. Håpet lev. Sovidt.
Earned the Better Together (Level 7) badge! Earned the Photogenic Brew (Level 80) badge!
Earned the Riding Steady (Level 64) badge! Earned the 99 Bottles (Level 53) badge!
Overkarbonert. Kom ut av flasken ved åpning. Ble noe grumset pga dette. Grei smak på det som ble igjen.
Earned the Session Life (Level 2) badge! Earned the Here Come the Vikings! (Level 21) badge!

ALB is the market leading Practice and Case Management Solution (PCMS) fundamentally changing the way solicitors work in the digital age. ALB integrates all aspects of a modern law firm into one legal software, including; legal accounting, document management, client and matter management and time recording. As well as providing end-to-end management of your law firm, ALB is enhanced with full mobile capabilities for lawyers working on the move, revolutionising the way solicitors work.
ALB provides law firms with cutting edge legal software which drives efficiencies throughout a law firm and provides a platform from which firms can grow and increase revenue in a competitive marketplace. ALB is the legal software of choice for solicitors looking to innovate their practice, work smarter and become a market leader.
Gain complete control over your practice with a solution which manages all aspects of activity.
Help your staff effectively manage clients, cases and documents, record time, process accounts and monitor performance.
The legal software is solid, scalable and usable, built to enable a streamlined approach to practice management though process automation and workflow capability.
Integrates with our market leading legal forms solution, Laserform.
Move forward in the digital age with a PCMS designed to support your law firm now and in the future.
Work smarter using legal software which will enhance productivity and streamline efficiencies.
Using an integrated legal software allows all documents, emails, faxes and scanned items to be added directly to a client’s file at the touch of a button.
ALB’s document management allows you to store all of your documents in one place, resulting in one version of the truth.
The full text search facility ensures users can quickly locate documents, and versioning of documents means that the current draft is apparent.
You have the ability to allow streamlined document comparisons.
Our team is made up of legal experts to ensure your law firm is supported in an age where compliance requirements are increasing.
We offer customers support with GDPR, Making Tax Digital and SRA Transparency regulations.
Our team is made up of experts within the legal and accountancy markets, ensuring we understand the legislative changes you are facing.
We’re a committed software provider, ready to help and adapt our product as rules and regulations evolve.
ALB provides solicitors with an essential set of activities that they can do on the go, as well as ensuring consistent communication with their colleagues when away from the office.
Have solicitors available on the move and responsive to client’s needs. The effective marketing tools within our legal software allows you to easily attract prospective clients and set yourself apart from the competition in the digital era.
Do more with less. Having all aspects of your law firm connected enables you to gain greater visibility of your firm’s performance with up to date information, providing one holistic view of your firm.
ALB’s document management streamlines digital working allowing all documents to be stored in one place results. Innovating your working practices improves efficiency and increases document management.
If you are a forward thinking law firm looking to drive efficiencies and simplify processes by digitising your practice, then attending one of our Roadshows is the perfect opportunity for you to understand how cutting edge software can support your journey.
Hear from law firms already embracing technology and gain knowledge from industry experts on transparency & GDPR compliance.

Is Logistics The Same As Supply Chain Management?
“There’s not a gap now,” explained Wayne Johnson of all American Gypsum.
“Inventory control integrates the Logistics is a Range of sub-processes within SCM,” stated Michael Kirby of Countrywide Distribution Centers.
Purchasing, substances Tackling, logistics, transport, inventory control and distribution chain control have continued to evolve, inducing a number of these operational areas to intersect together. This junction has led to fuzzy definitions for a number of those terms such as logistics and supply chain control.
While Both of These phrases Do possess any similarities that they truly are, in actuality, different notions with various meanings. Supply chain management can be an empirical theory that connects together multiple methods to attain competitive advantage, while marketing pertains to this movement, flow, and storage of products, services, and data over the total distribution chain.
It’s the attempts of a Number of businesses working together like a distribution chain which help manage the flow of garbage and ensure that the final goods offer value. Supply-chain managers work over multiple purposes and businesses to make sure that a final product not just extends to the end user, but matches all requirements too. Logistics is only one small portion of this bigger, all-purpose distribution chain system.
According to multinational logistics companies in India, the Aim supporting Logistics would be to be certain that the purchaser receives the desirable product at the ideal time and set with the ideal calibre and cost-effective. This procedure can be split into two subcategories: multinational logistics and outbound logistics.
Inbound logistics Covers the actions concerned about getting stuff after which tackling, keeping and hauling them. Outbound logistics covers those activities focused on the collection, maintenance, and supply to the client. Additional tasks, such as packaging and fulfilling orders, warehousing, managing stock and sustaining the balance between demand and supply also variable into logistics.
It’s important that you Bear in mind that whilst the terms shouldn’t be used properly, they really do supplement each other. 1 process can’t exist without the opposite. Below are some vital differences between both terms which may assist you to prevent from blurring the lines between these two.
Supply chain management can be actually a means to link major Business procedures within and across businesses into a home-based company version which drives competitive edge. Logistics denotes this movement, storage and storage Stream of products, services and information outside and inside the company. The most important focus of distribution series is competitive Advantage, whilst the most important focus of logistics is fulfilling customer requirements.Logistics is really a word that’s existed for a Long period, emerging from the military origins, whilst supply chain control can be a relatively new term. Logistics can be a task within the source chain.

Skin biopsy taken on 12 year old female purple bluish blotches on face neck and arms?
Rash on breast after cyst aspiration?
I am experiencing skin redness or irritation (worsened by: after exposure to the sun) .on chest, neck, and face. randomly. it just turns blotchy ?
Fever for three days then rash on face, neck and chest , 1 year old. The rash blanches when pressed and doesn't appear to bother her.?
What causes a rash, red, blotchy, then solid red, on trunk, chest. Not itchy.Hot. No new products on skin or injested.
This rash non-itchy rash has been disappearing and reappearing for about a month. The rash appears on the neck, chest, and stomach.
I am experiencing breast redness and rash on chest.
5 week old has developed a skin rash. It's located on arms chest and legs and slightly on cheeks. Tiny red bumps. Doc said eczema. I think heat rash?

see my previous post on the topic, #1.
My last post ended up more as a how-to than what-to. This time, I’ll say why you should have local copies of the documentation for most of the tools you use. I’ll also tell you the sort of things I always have handy as well.
Getting a local copy of php.net – and getting installed as an apache vhost and updated (probably weekly) is some effort, but well worth it. I’ve said it before, but PHP.net is the best language reference site that I’ve seen. It’s kept up to date (sometimes ahead of the code releases in fact) and while the notes that are added to it can sometimes confuse, as much as help, when they do help, they will really make the difference.
I don’t tend to buy many PHP books, because what can they do besides re-iterate what is is already there?
The most important thing to bear in mind though is not to just have the documentation there to read – you have to know what is available. Projects like PHP, the Zend Framework and PHPUnit have a lot of parts – and knowing that they have things – even if you don’t know how they work right now, can save you days or weeks of effort.
It’s for that reason that you need to at least scan over all the the docs you have – and indeed for all the libraries and tools that you use. Even I don’t read everything and expect to remember it all – but I remember enough to recognise that a paticular tool might have something to help – maybe PHP has something to search the values in an array (http://php.net/array-search), or can use Oracle, or Ldap, or Memcached, or that Zend Framework can let you easily loop over maildirs (or an mbox) to get each mail from within it. If you don’t read the manual – at least skimming over it, you would never know that functionality exists, and you inevitably end up reimplementing other people’s already debugged code. That’s a waste of your time.
So, take an hour now, and assemble a directory to put these docs into, and read through them – not everything, but at least look at headers of every section, just to get an idea of what is available and maybe go back and read up some more on things that may be useful to you. If something isn’t so interesting to you now, do bear in mind, your next project, or job, might change that.
Above all, keep learning. Never stop.
I generally just download the latest many-HTML-page tar.bz2 file from http://pear.php.net/manual/ and drop it into my docs directory.
For ZF, there’s two sets of documentation – the main docs, and the generated API. Also, since they are released as versions, with the code, rather than continually upgraded. Downloading and unpacking both styles of documentation is easy, and then I’ll just add a quick index.html file in the base to quickly bounce into either the manual, or API.
Simpletest is easy, copy the documentation from the source tar-ball. While the team that develops it is getting quickly obsoleted by PHP Unit, they are still ahead on mocking and web-form testing. There are also some ideas somewhat buried in the online docs for upcoming features.
For updating the phpunit docs, I’ve taken to checking out a copy of the docs and running the build script to get the HTML, and then like ZF, having a redirect [in this case, a header(‘Location: …’)] to bounce the browser into the right place to start reading. An Apache alias or just an easy link from the top level into the generated docs are other trivial ways to do that.
http://svnbook.red-bean.com/ and of course, they have the book sources in subversion Probably as easy to just download the multi-file tarball occasionally.
Although TortoiseSvn, and other tools like it make the every day check-ins and updates easy, I know I’ll still hit the manual for branching for a while yet.
You thought you were going to get away without a reminder to write your own documentation? Wrong!
phpXref – A bit of an old-timer, it’s actually written in perl, but it will link parts of your code around a large number of HTML pages – useful for code exploration.
The Pear PHP_DocBlockGenerator is also useful to generate the place-holders in a newly written file that might be a little light on function docblocks, though it does tend to go a little overboard with variables. If there are docblocks – even empty ones, it won’t change them, but it will add function parameter names for you to go back and explain what they are, and why they are there.
One little optimisation I’ve done with a project I’m working on is that since the site is some 45MB – most of that pure PHP (library) code, I don’t bother running the document generation unless a PHP file has changed.
I hope those help, but remember – you have to know where to look for help – so read!

19/06/2014 · Today the average American’s health insurance payments fluctuate once a year. Imagine if that rate changed each day, determined in part by a sensor-rich.
Incredibly, some insurers are even raising rates for autonomous vehicles. ROOT is a registered service mark of Root Insurance Company, Columbus, OH. This story.
to tailor and design policy premiums. But not only auto insurers use big data and.
If you are 60-69 your term life insurance premiums start at $76 and $100 for women and men respectively. See rates for other ages as well.
a car. Nothing mind-blowing, but the kind of cheap, solid, basic transportation that’s increasingly hard to find in America as we kill off our small cars and move to.
Car thefts increased last year. insurers when assessing the price of your motor insurance policy. “In recent years the average cost of motor insurance has been.
Low-income people with diabetes are better able to afford their medications.
Car thefts have increased by over. insurers when assessing the price of your motor insurance policy, in recent years the average cost of motor insurance has been.
Campus Health Health Education Alcohol, Tobacco, and Other Drugs Smoking Tobacco. People begin smoking for many reasons—some start smoking to try to fit in with.

I watched the ABC’s latest foray into public affairs last week, Q & A, or as it’s portrayed in it’s website link, QANDA.
I hadn’t managed to watch the show to date, despite the first show being dedicated to Kevin Rudd solely. These shows tend to be 50-50 as a translation into acceptable viewing, I find. 50% worth a look and 50% worth avoiding like the black plague.
The show I saw was this one, and truthfully, I found it quite entertaining and informative. Being the first viewing, I’m unsure of the usual panel make-up, but if this show is any guide, it seems there’s two or three pollies, a boofhead and a comedian. Looking back at previous lineups it seems the three pollies-plus-boofhead is usually evident, at least.
I’m writing about this program to alert bloggers to the upcoming edition of QANDA this Thursday, 26 June. The line up is one not to be missed because Timmy Blair will be making a rare appearance on the ABC, television no less. He’ll be accompanied by Labor’s Bill Shorten, Liberal Greg Hunt, Elizabeth Ann Macgregor and Angela Conway. Timmy Blair surrounded by two up-and-coming politically astute and aware politicians, the Director of the Museum of Contemporary Art and spokesperson for a somewhat closeted conservative thinktank. Who’s going to play the part of boofhead, I wonder? Given the precis by the ABC on Blair at QANDA’s site, It looks as though someone involved with the program has already decided that Timmy should.
Tim Blair is a columnist and blogger with The Daily Telegraph, Australia’s second best-selling newspaper. He describes his columns, which have previously appeared in The Bulletin, The Australian, The Age, the Sydney Morning Herald, Time magazine and the Australian Financial Review, as dealing calmly and rationally with the subject of climate change, on which Blair is a world-recognised non-expert. Blair recently celebrated World Environment Day by driving from Sydney to Mackay, Queensland. Only 108 litres of fuel was consumed, a figure Blair himself describes as ‘pathetic’.
Even makes me cringe. Don’t miss it. Should be a complete hoot!

A former supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari, Isa Mohammed Munlaila, on Thursday began trekking to Abuja from Lagos in protest at what he called the failure of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress to provide jobs for Nigerian youths.
Meanwhile, Munlaila lamented that people were suffering as the standard of living had gone up, adding that the president had failed to fulfill his promises to the people.
“Actually, I want to show my disappointment for this APC. As you can see, the youths of this country are very angry. APC promised us heaven on earth, they promised us three million jobs in a year, but now, we don’t even have 500,000 jobs in four year,” he said.
Munlaila carried a small box painted green and red with “R.I.P A.P.C.” written on the red painted part. Munlaila claimed to have walked from Lagos to Lokoja in 2015 in support of Buhari and the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello.

Tipper and I were deeply saddened today to learn of the death of former Rep. Morris (Mo) Udall.
Mo Udall made his life's work protecting the environment and serving the people of Arizona. Having served in Congress with Mo, I will always remember him for his dedication to the issues he held close to his heart.
During his 30 years in Congress, he worked hard to protect our environment, shepherding through legislation to protect our nations precious land and resources. He also took important steps to make the government work better for all Americans.
Mo will always be remembered for his wisdom and his wit. His work was a gift to all Americans.
Our thoughts and prayers go out to his wife Norma, and their six children and grandchildren.

By connecting Favro to your Microsoft or Google Calendar, start and due dates on cards that are assigned to you will automatically show up in your calendar. This will allow you to set reminders of upcoming due dates so you never miss a dead line.
Both calendar integrations are enabled by default, all members of the organization can choose to connect their Favro account with their calendar.
Click your avatar in the top right corner and choose which calendar you would like to connect to Favro.
Sign into your account and click Next.
Give Favro permission to access your calendar.
Remember that cards added before enabling the integration will not appear in your calendar. Only cards created, assigned to you with start and due date, after enabling the integration will be visible in your Google calendar.

He hopes you’ll buy his latest CD and tickets to his show Jan.15 at Anthology. But at the same time, bluesman Otis Taylor saysthat if he’s honest with himself, he’d have to admit he probablydoesn’t care as much about the money end of things as heshould.
“I just don’t care if I sell records ---- I must not care,because I do the things the way I do,” Taylor said recently byphone. He explained that he views each album as a chance to explorea new concept ---- and thus keeps moving into new territory, ratherthan finding something that sells well and then turning out thesame style of record over and over.
“When I first started, I didn’t care; now, I can say I carebecause I’m making a little money. I care about money; I just don’tcareenoughabout money.
One thing he’s not doing the same is touring with daughterCassie Taylor, his longtime bassist and co-vocalist.
When asked if this surprised him, Taylor said his daughter hadmet someone and was tired of being away all the time. So for thistour, he’s bringing a different bass player and a drummer as well,"which is unusual,” he said.
He’s still touring in support of “Pentatonic Wars and LoveSongs,” released last June on Telarc. That album’s core concept waslove, while the album before that, “Reclaiming the Banjo,” wasabout exploring the black roots of the banjo.
His next album, set for release this June, is already finished.Taylor said he produces his own albums and then delivers a finishedproduct to Telarc.
Taylor said that he likes the playing on his recordings to soundfresh, so he will only go to two takes on a song ---- and only totwo takes because the other musicians playing with him may beplaying one of his songs for the first time on take No. 1. But ifthey don’t get it right the second time?
“Three takes makes me nervous, and I don’t get to four takes---- there’s no emotion left.
Although Telarc Records, his home since 2003’s “Truth Is NotFiction,” has been bought by the Concord Group, Taylor said thechanges haven’t filtered down to the musicians.
“They don’t send anyone out there to watch you. Some things aredone differently; a little more corporate, but not artistically.... There’s just more paperwork for everything.
While he admitted that his brand of “trance blues” is farremoved from the mainstream, Taylor said it is possible to beinfluential without being famous.
“I figure it’s better to have a niche than just be part of thepack. I have a lot of young filmmakers wanting to use my music.There’s a whole younger set that’s hearing about me, which iscool.
“Who’s more important in the world, Miles Davis or Mick Jagger?A hundred years from now, it will be Miles. Who’s sold morerecords? The Rolling Stones. But who’s hipper? Miles Davis.
“That’s a legacy I’d like to leave ---- but we’ll see.

Check back later to find the answer to this. Answered on Jul 17, 2018 Posted in PR Photos 1 answer Last reply 1 week ago This question has 0 votes by We&apos;re researching this question now. We recommend checking their FAQ page for any updated info. We&apos;re scouring Danny Clinch&apos;s website and customer service pages, other websites, and contacting Danny Clinch directly to try to find an answer to this question. Shutterstock has one of the best stock video library on the market.
For limited time, our exclusive iStock Promo Code. Are you trying to find the best deals for stock photos?

Download or share custom appearance themes.
If you've created a custom theme and would like to share it with other VueMinder users, please post it here! The theme can be uploaded as a zip file. Optional - if you've edited the icons too, include the file named "ToolbarsUser.xml" in the zip file. That file is located in the folder where VueMinder stores its data.
To install a theme that has been uploaded here, download and extract the file. Copy the file that ends with an "isl" extension to the folder where VueMinder was installed. This is usually "C:\Program Files (x86)\VueSoft\VueMinder". The theme can then be selected in the Appearance Options.
If the zip file includes a file named ToolbarsUser.xml, exit VueMinder by right-clicking its icon in the task tray and selecting "Exit". Extract the ToolbarsUser.xml file to the folder where VueMinder saves user data. The path can be found in the Program Options. When VueMinder is restarted, you'll see icons that are more consistent with the appearance theme.
Here my PureBlack Theme (with a blue touch).
It's not 100% finished as some areas are not yet available for skinning yet (Year view, Timeline view, Details pane).
Also I don't use many features of this amazing software so I might have missed important aspects to other users.
Finally I paid most attention just to the normal visible area and not to popup windows and menu (they are skinned too, but there may be some problems or inconsistencies).
Please report any problem and I'll try to fix them.
Hi tacchan23, looks great! Would you mind if I include this theme in the next version?
Feel free to add it in the next version!
FYI, this theme is included with version 10.1.0 and later.

If your gutters require cleaning, call Klamath Continuous Gutter's expert team for a FREE estimate, at 541-884-7000.
Damage and neglect can increase the hardship on your home or property. You can count on our professional team to inspect the state of your gutters, and provide the necessary repairs or installation needed.
Once we have brought your gutters back up to speed we will provide you with helpful tips to keep your gutters and investments in the best shape possible.
We promise to give you the best service with our helpful team when you and your home need it most, and at a fair price.
We service communities big and small in Klamath, Lake, Modoc and Siskiyou Counties. From Chemult to Macdoel and from Keno to Cedarville - call us for you next gutter project. Klamath Contiuous Gutters, INC. has built a reputation of getting the job done right at a fair price. It is with that reputation that we look forward to providing friendly, courteous, and professional service for many decades to come.
The loyal relationship we have established with many customers over the years is the ultimate satisfaction for us at Klamath Continuous Gutter. Nothing pleases us more than when a happy customer recommends us to their families and friends. It demonstrates that we have fulfilled our mission to provide our neighbors with superior service and products.
What type of gutter and downspout works best with our average snowfall? What works best for weather that freezes and thaws multiple times in the winter? Being a locally owned-operated company, we know what gutter systems work best in the high desert. We will install customized gutters and downspouts that will protect your home for many years to come.

Typically, home users have been subjected to very few, true performance NAS products. If you wanted true performance, you had to reach a little deeper into your pocket, and pull out a bit more of that hard earned money.
With Netgear being an industry leader in network storage solutions, it seems only fitting that they would offer top to bottom storage solutions for every sector of the market. Today, on this crisp winter morning, we will be looking over the Netgear ReadyNAS 104. The RN104 is a four bay NAS appliance that caters to the needs of consumers that want personal cloud storage. It offers standard features like a home media and file server, coupled together with low entry cost.
The RN104 is built upon the Marvell ARMADA 370 platform, clocked at 1.2 GHz, with 512MB of memory to accompany it. Across the front of the unit, we have four 3.5" drive trays that support tool-less installation. Total storage capacity is listed at 16TB, with dual gigabit LAN ports at the rear of the unit.
For quick management of the NAS, we have a two line LCD screen on the front of the unit, with dual USB 3.0 ports, and eSATA for additional storage options. Power consumption is listed at 45 watts for operation, and 1.4 watts with WOL enabled.
Pricing of the four bay Netgear ReadyNAS 104 is listed at $319.99, without drives. The unit carries a three-year warranty from Netgear.

Java might be the grandaddy of them all, but there are new kids on the block. Let's see what makes Scala and Kotlin great, frustrating, and how they compare to Java.
Since the arrival and maturity of Kotlin, JVM-based languages face quite a challenge, most particularly Scala. You must have heard a lot about Kotlin by now, especially the perks and treats it brings to the Java table. But then there is Scala, a powerful and concise Java alternative. Scala vs Kotlin? Which one is better? Or maybe it's Kotlin vs. Java or Java vs. Scala?
Scala and Kotlin aim to better Java in their own different ways.
To those of you planning to shift from Java to either Kotlin or Scala (can't imagine it the other way around), I am going to paint a "what's what" scenario so you can decide better for yourself.
Let's look at Kotlin first.
Kotlin was developed by JetBrains and reached the market in Feb. 2012 as an open source language. Up until now, Kotlin has had two released versions, with Kotlin 1.2 being the most stable version, released Nov. 28, 2017.
The language grew in popularity on Android because of its perfect compatibility with Java 6, which is mainly the present version of Java on Android. Not just that, Kotlin offers some features that are only in Java 8, and are thus not available to Android developers on Java 6.
In the closet full of 'All that is good about Kotlin,' the two most prominent qualities of Kotlin entail seamless and flawless interoperability with Java. You can call Java code from Kotlin and vice versa without any hiccups or frowns, not to mention the in-built null safety feature. Not seeing a NullPointerException is every Android programmer’s dream.
Android app development is completely transformed into a blissful, non-NPE experience. If you want some detail as to how the null safety works, check it out here.
That is also one of the 'why's' for Google adopting Kotlin on Android as an officially supported language.
Apart from that, take a look at some of the strengths Kotlin has to offer.
Any Java competitor has to be an FP language. Kotlin lacks a little on the higher-kinded types and type safety, but nonetheless, it offers all the features of an OOP style language with an FP approach.
This is my favorite part. Java is great, but the boilerplate code it makes you write is just frustrating and error-prone. Coding in Kotlin is very short, concise, and to the point. Get the job done with fewer lines of code than in Java. The less you have to write, the less often you make errors and expose yourself to bugs. Everyone knows that, right?
One way Kotlin reduces the amount of code is by limiting the use of findViewById.
Kotlin allows views to be accessed from the layout XML, just like you would properties. Instead of using findViewById every time, all you have to do is follow this example.
Although Kotlin is a younger language than Scala, it has the support of two great companies: the formidable Google and the amazing JetBrains, who are responsible for many other IDEs, including the IntelliJ IDE for Android. So there is no doubt about great tooling support there. To all the people who thought of Kotlin as some trend, you could not be more wrong.
Kotlin is already on Android and it is definitely here to stay, grow, and evolve.
But with strength comes some weakness as well.
Pattern matching is not strong in Kotlin. It doesn’t fully support it.
...that would be a no. But it's no frowner. You can still do a pretty fine pattern matching job by intelligently using the when clause. But we all know that intelligence takes a little more effort and skills than your average Joe.
If your applications are already long, then the extra runtime size of 800KB could be a problem for you. You might experience a dwindling number of downloads because of the bigger size of an application.
Nothing is ever all good. With the concise approach Kotlin offers, there is a little problem. With so much going on in so little code, it becomes a little hard to read and understand at first. It might even feel overwhelming to a beginner.
Although Google has joined hands with JetBrains to offer support for Kotlin, it is pivotal to know that Google does not endorse it. Even when you use Kotlin in Android, the autocorrect occurs slower than it does for Java.
As I already mentioned, Kotlin is younger than Scala and, needless to say, Java.
Since Kotlin is younger than Scala, it has fewer libraries, blog posts, and tutorials.
The online support community is quite small. The lack of blog posts, tutorials, and user documentation might become a problem for you, but as trends suggest, this might be filled up soon as more and more people and companies are adopting Kotlin.
Before you make up your mind, let's hop over to Scala.
Scala surfaced to the general public in the year 2004. Developed by Martin Odersky, Scala was released on the Java platform as a general-purpose programming language. The name Scala is not some whimsical notion, it is an abbreviation of "scalable": a language that is scalable according to the needs of its users.
Being released in 2004 sure gave Scala the advantage of maturing more over time and taking the spotlight from Kotlin.
Scala has some common features with Kotlin like conciseness of code, higher-order functions, FP functionality with an OOP style, and interoperability with Java (though not as good as Kotlin). Other than that, here is what Scala is about.
Pattern matching in Scala is no joke. Scala uses the match statement for this purpose, which is a powerful version of Java's switch statement. It allows you to match on any type of data, lists, and even your own types. If you haven't already tried it, I suggest you play around with it a little.
Scala is a little complex, but it has a very flexible code syntax. The proficient use of functional programming features makes the code extensible and hierarchical to the very best level.
Scala has been here for more than a decade. Since it is a powerful Java alternative, it has huge support community. We're talking about YouTube tutorials, blog posts, forums, and let's not forget the official support and user documentation. Anything you find yourself struggling with, you can pretty much find the answer to it.
Scala does not restrict you from overloading operators. You can play with operator-looking functions and define limitlessly. But you need to be careful with this feature. Still, if you can do this right, your code readability will increase. If not, you might end up making your code difficult to understand.
Everything is about speed in the world of coding. A slow program is a big turn-off. When it comes to industry-grade projects, Scala's compile time turns into minutes as compared to Kotlin, which tries to compile as fast as Java, which is in seconds.
Scala is not binary compatible with a few versions. Let's say you compiled with Scala 2.1. The same will not compile with Scala 2.11.
That could be nothing, or it could be your biggest nightmare if you have to work across different versions and update them. Especially if you have production-scale projects.
Scala attempts a good take on managing null safety, but it's just not as effective. The Scala equivalent for null safety is the Option keyword. Using this, there is a considerable chance you might get an NPE at the back door.
Scala and Kotlin are in quite a tug of war. Scala has the edge over Kotlin in some ways, but Kotlin is just as formidable in others. The main differences — where the two languages set themselves apart — is that Kotlin is more like a better version of Java, while Scala is an entirely different kind of Java, so to speak.
While Scala has a bit of a learning curve, it offers unparalleled support for advanced functional programming. Kotlin, on the other hand, is super easy to learn and fun to code in.
But does that mean something is wrong with Java? I mean why change from Java in the first place?
Java is old. Really old. Like, great-grandpa old. And while popular, its popularity actually works against it. Java use is everywhere, which makes it impossible for teams using Java to change their fundamentals, even knowing that Java is facing a lot of technical criticism as well.
No matter the greatness, Java has too much redundancy and lengthy boilerplate code. Kotlin and Scala just happen to be better at what Java was intended for.
Choosing the language primarily depends on the use you need it for. Scala is a good fit for projects with a need for a mix of functional and OOP style programming languages. For places where you need to handle large amounts of data or complex modeling reliant on mathematics, Scala would be best.
However, if you just wanted Java to be less frustrating — but still be Java — then there is nothing better than Kotlin out there. Using Kotlin for Android app development will be the best thing that ever happened to you. Kotlin is like a Java cousin with better looks and who doesn’t talk gibberish. So choose wisely and may the code-Force be with you.

Amish Broccoli Cauliflower Salad tossed in a creamy dressing of yogurt and mayonnaise. This easy recipe is perfect for gatherings and low carb friends.
The first time I had a raw broccoli salad was at my bridal shower over 20 years ago. My mother’s recipe for broccoli salad had bacon and cranberries. Yum. It’s been my family’s go-to summer salad ever since. But it’s nice to change things up once in awhile. This Amish broccoli cauliflower salad does it for me. It’s especially a hit with the cheese lovers in the family!
I have a recipe for low carb broccoli salad with bacon on the blog. I love it because it’s so easy to customize. I add nuts and seeds by whim and sometimes add a few raisins or unsweetened cranberries. A little sesame oil adds a pleasant sweet flavor.
What I really like about this Amish broccoli cauliflower salad recipe is the cheese. Using sharp cheddar cheese adds a nice tang and texture to the salad.
Some recipes for Amish cauliflower salad call for grated cheddar cheese, but I like it cubed. I admit it’s purely based on aesthetics. The grated cheese mixes well, but the salad becomes a creamy indiscernible mess. Cubing the cheese adds another visible layer of texture.
This recipe, too, is easy to customize. Try replacing the cheddar cheese with Parmesan or any other favorite. Add seeds or nuts – sunflower seeds would be great. Try using a colored variety of cauliflower for fun.
And who doesn’t like a cool creamy dressing? Many recipes for Amish broccoli salad call for a combination of mayonnaise and sour cream. I opted to use mayonnaise and Greek yogurt. Use either – they’re both great.
The salad keeps well in the fridge and is a great for family gatherings or a pot-luck. I make sure to bring low carb sides or sugar-free desserts to any gatherings so that I have a few on-plan options.
Amish Broccoli Cauliflower Salad is 3 net carbs per cup.
Meanwhile, wash and chop the vegetables and place into a large bowl. If serving the salad the next day, cover and refrigerate.
Mix the ingredients for the dressing in a medium bowl and taste to adjust the seasoning. Cover and refrigerate if not using right away.
Toss the salad ingredients with the broccoli then stir in the dressing. (I use less dressing than the recipe makes - as shown in the photos, but you may want to use it all.) Serve.
Refrigerate any leftovers up to 5 days. Makes 7 cups at 1 cup per serving.
*Use regular sugar if not following a low carb or sugar free diet.
Yet again another winner! I was looking for a recipe that is similar to a broccoli salad dish I used to get for lunch at a pizza place near where I used to work. This one fits the bill and then some. This will be in my recipe rotation for sure – thank you again for your wonderful recipes and website!
This was the best salad I’ve had in a very long time! Husband requested again for the next nights dinner!
Yum! Another winning recipe. This is perfect for summer. Everyone loved it. I made it according to directions, but added an additional tablespoon of lemon juice to thin the dressing a little. I also used grated cheese because that’s what I had on hand. Thank you!
Is the serving size one cup?
If I’m preparing this to serve the next day, is it ok to mix dressing with veggies or should I wait until next day?
Looks delicious! The article doesn’t repeat Amish broccoli cauliflower salad enough, IMO.
Such a delicious salad! Worth making!
Thanks so much Anita for bringing this comment over from Facebook. I’m glad you liked the recipe. Enjoy your week! ?

The Stroke Blog: We Want to Go with Oh to Paris!
Before we get started, did you miss our big announcement last Friday?
Paris is a city for the senses. And it takes our mantra eat, see, and do, to a whole new level. The tastes - melt-in-your-mouth baguettes and rich French wines. The smells - Parisian perfumeries and subways. The sights - panoramic views from the Eiffel Tower and Arc du Triomphe, shimmering stained glass at Notre Dame and Sainte Chapelle, some of the best street fashion in the world. And countless things to do - burlesque shows at the Moulin Rouge, Seine river cruises, Parisian plages, Luxembourg Gardens, shopping the Champs d'Elysees, getting lost in the Louvre. In a lifetime you couldn't begin to scratch the surface of all this city has to offer. And that's why we love it.
1. HEAR THE FOUNTAINS AT VERSAILLES. Yes, hear. You might think of Versailles as a feast for the eyes, but from April to October the fountains of Versailles come alive to the sound of classical music. We'll wander through the palace with throngs of fellow tourists, feed the ducks at the Hameau de la Reine, and ride a bike built for two around the gardens to enjoy the musical show. We'll have a lot of ground to cover - the gardens alone measure 8 square kilometers!
2. PAY OUR RESPECTS AT PÉRE LACHAISE CEMETERY. Pére Lachaise is Paris' biggest cemetery, and an art history student's dream. It's the final resting place of Chopin, Parisian architect Baron Haussmann, playwright Molière, Victor Hugo, musician Jim Morrison, Marcel Proust, Delacroix, the poet Guilliame Apollinaire, Oscar Wilde, Modigliani, and Gertrude Stein, to name a few. It's also home to many heartbreakingly beautiful sepulchres, funerary monuments, sculptures, and mausolea. Affectionately called la cité des morts (city of the dead) by locals, this cemetery feels anything but. And we can't wait to show it to you.
3. PLAY AT DISNEYLAND PARIS. Conjure up an image of Paris and it may not include amusement park rides and Mickey Mouse. But we believe that even big kids need to play once in awhile. When we Go with Oh to Paris we'll experience the magic of Disneyland - Jess' first time to a Disney theme park. Spinning tea cups, costumed characters, Space Mountain, and Fantasyland. We'll see the world through a child's eyes, if only for a day. It's a small world, after all.
4. DINE IN THE DARK. Although French food can arguably be appreciated with the eyes as much as the mouth, in Paris we'll opt for a quirky culinary experience and go dining in the dark. At other eat-in-the-dark restaurants diners and staff are given night goggles, but not here. Restaurant Dans Le Noir is the real deal. Diners and wait staff rely on their sense of smell and touch to navigate the restaurant and identify what's on their plate. We think it will make for a clumsy, messy, and fun evening. Imagine the before and after shots!
5. SEE A WORKING GUILLOTINE. Formerly working, of course. In a tiny bar in Paris' Latin Quarter a bit of Parisian history is being preserved. La Caveau des Oubliettes (roughly translated as Cave of the Forgotten) is located in a genuine 12th century prison that held prisoners awaiting the guillotine. Serving up drinks in a simultaneously chilling and warm atmosphere, only at La Caveau can you sit next to a live jazz and blues band and a 1792 working guillotine at the same time. We'll drink up (pun intended) a little piece of Paris' history, and chat up some locals about what to see when we inevitably return to the city. Because Paris - this big, beautiful, sensory delight of a city - has a way of always drawing visitors back.
Help us Go with Oh to Paris! Send a tweet or email (they're pre-loaded with messages - easy!) or create a Facebook post to let Go with Oh know we're the best bloggers for the job. Not only do we have a great story to share, but Go with Oh wants to help you get the most out of what Europe has to offer. And we live that motto everyday.
With Go with Oh there's something for everyone. Get in on the fun! Tweet your best Berlin travel tips to @GowithOh for a chance to win a $50 Amazon gift card. You can also enter to win one of four fantastic travel prizes - Samsonite luggage, an iPad, a Panasonic camera, or €500 worth of holiday accomodation - on their Facebook site.
We've also created the #GowithOh tag on Pinterest! Head on over to check out our #GowithOh board for great travel ideas, and tweet us if we've missed your favourite.
Dine in the Dark, thats a new concept for me. Seems like the type of gimmickry you'd expect from the trendoids in Berlin, not the French.
Maybe it would heighten my weaker than normal sense of smell. How about the French waiters? They might operate with more impunity as they're anonymous now. Did I tiptoe around enough lazy stereotypes already.
I was curious about the waiters...I'll report back and let you know!

Where should routes be defined?
BootPHP provides a very powerful routing system. In essence, routes provide an interface between the urls and your controllers and actions. With the correct routes you could make almost any url scheme correspond to almost any arrangement of controllers, and you could change one without impacting the other.
As mentioned in the Request Flow section, a request is handled by the Request class, which will look for a matching Route and load the appropriate controller to handle that request.
It is important to understand that routes are matched in the order they are added, and as soon as a URL matches a route, routing is essentially "stopped" and the remaining routes are never tried. Because the default route matches almost anything, including an empty url, new routes must be place before it.
The default route is simply provided as a sample, you can remove it and replace it with your own routes.
So this creates a route with the name default that will match urls in the format of (<controller>(/<action>(/<id>))).
Let's take a closer look at each of the parameters of Route::set, which are `name`, `uri`, and an optional array `regex`.
The name of the route must be a unique string. If it is not it will overwrite the older route with the same name. The name is used for creating urls by reverse routing, or checking which route was matched.
The uri is a string that represents the format of urls that should be matched. The tokens surrounded with `<>` are keys and anything surrounded with `()` are optional parts of the uri. In BootPHP routes, any character is allowed and treated literally aside from `()<>`. The `/` has no meaning besides being a character that must match in the uri. Usually the `/` is used as a static seperator but as long as the regex makes sense, there are no restrictions to how you can format your routes.
Lets look at the default route again, the uri is `((/(/)))`. We have three keys or params: controller, action, and id. In this case, the entire uri is optional, so a blank uri would match and the default controller and action (set by defaults(), covered below) would be assumed resulting in the `Controller_Welcome` class being loaded and the `action_index` method being called to handle the request.
Controller - The controller that the request should execute.
Action - The action method to call.
The BootPHP route system uses perl compatible regular expressions in its matching process. By default each key (surrounded by `<>`) will match `[^/.,;?\n]++` (or in english: anything that is not a slash, period, comma, semicolon, question mark, or newline). You can define your own patterns for each key by passing an associative array of keys and patterns as an additional third argument to Route::set.
In this example, we have controllers in two directories, admin and affiliate. Because this route will only match urls that begin with admin or affiliate, the default route would still work for controllers in classes/controller.
You can also use a less restrictive regex to match unlimited parameters, or to ignore overflow in a route. In this example, the url foobar/baz/and-anything/else_that/is-on-the/url would be routed to Controller_Foobar::action_baz() and the "stuff" parameter would be "and-anything/else_that/is-on-the/url". If you wanted to use this for unlimited parameters, you could explode it, or you just ignore the overflow.
If a key in a route is optional (or not present in the route), you can provide a default value for that key by passing an associated array of keys and default values to Route::defaults, chained after your Route::set. This can be useful to provide a default controller or action for your site, among other things.
The `controller` and `action` key must always have a value, so they either need to be required in your route (not inside of parentheses) or have a default value provided.
In the default route, all the keys are optional, and the controller and action are given a default. If we called an empty url, the defaults would fill in and `Controller_Welcome::action_index()` would be called. If we called `foobar` then only the default for action would be used, so it would call `Controller_Foobar::action_index()` and finally, if we called `foobar/baz` then neither default would be used and `Controller_Foobar::action_baz()` would be called.
You can also use defaults to set a key that isn't in the route at all.
As you can see in the below route, the reverse uri parameter might not make sense.
* You don't like slashes?
The Request::param method takes an optional second argument to specify a default return value in case the key is not set by the route. If no arguments are given, all keys are returned as an associative array. In addition, `action`, `controller` and `directory` are not accessible via Request::param().
If a url matches the route, then `Controller_Ads::index()` will be called. You can access the parameters by using the `param()` method of the controller's Request. Remember to define a default value (via the second, optional parameter of Request::param) if you didn't in `->defaults()`.
The established convention is to either place your custom routes in the `MODPATH//init.php` file of your module if the routes belong to a module, or simply insert them into the `APPPATH/bootstrap.php` file (be sure to put them above the default route) if they are specific to the application. Of course, nothing stops you from including them from an external file, or even generating them dynamically.
Let's say you decided later to make that route definition more verbose by changing it to `feeds/<user_id>(/).`. If you wrote your code with the above uri generation method you wouldn't have to change a single line! When a part of the uri is enclosed in parentheses and specifies a key for which there in no value provided for uri generation and no default value specified in the route, then that part will be removed from the uri. An example of this is the `(/)` part of the default route; this will not be included in the generated uri if an id is not provided.

Just having a bit of good clean fun here at PHA!
More fun from the Spanish Fashion Show at PHA!
It's springtime in the garden at PHA!
In honor of Earth Day PHA is adopting two animals! Announcement will be given at our Pep Rally on Friday. Cast your vote today!
PTC Meeting tomorrow at 8:15. Open Meeting held for ALL who is interested in joining our PTC Board for the 2019-2020 Year!
Today is the last day of Iowa Testing Week. Great job Jaguars!
#ThankfulThursday We are celebrating our wonderful school volunteers tomorrow during our volunteer luncheon!
Building for the future at PHA!
Hitting the books at PHA!
Learning about China with art! The PHA "Wall of Koi" and Asian Brush Painting.
Working together, building great things at PHA!
We had so much fun learning to write with quill pens!
Sliding into the weekend at PHA!
PHA 1st graders making custom bird houses!

How would you rate the employment opportunities in Five Points? Excellent. High paying jobs are easy to find. Good. There are a fair amount of good paying jobs available. Poor. There are some jobs available. Awful. The job market has run dry. View resultsWrite a review to give others more information about this area.
How accessible is public transportation in Five Points? Very. Lots of options, commuting to work is a breeze. Somewhat. There is some, but my commute could be shorter. Fairly. I need to travel a long way to get to work. Not. There is no public transportation in this area. View resultsWrite a review to give others more information about this area.
The income per capita in Five Points is 51% lower than the national average.
The median household income in Five Points is 51% lower than the national average.
The unemployment rate in Five Points is 224% higher than the national average.
The poverty level in Five Points is equal to the national average.
Source: The Five Points, Detroit, MI employment data displayed above is derived from the 2016 United States Census Bureau American Community Survey (ACS).

Kiehl's Hydro-Plumping Re-Texturizing Serum Concentrate - 1.7 oz.
It takes more than chugging a glass of water to bring life back to dehydrated skin. Fortunately, this concentrated serum was created specifically to revive the driest of skin, reversing age-related dehydration that causes fine lines and rough texture. A potent blend of plant-based glycerin and Japanese shiso leaf extract plumps skin and softens fine lines so skin looks healthy, hydrated, and restored.
Great texture! Went on and soaked in like gel-water and kept my face hydrated and smooth all day. Loved it, will definitely purchase.
I really like this brand and am happy to use this serum as it plumps the skin. My lines seems smoother.
Loved the soft feel on my usually very dry, sensitive skin. I received a sample size in one of my Birchbox purchases, not really large enough to see if my skin would reject it. The price point is too high for me.
I wish it didn’t have silicones in it - I know that’s what makes my skin so smooth but it’s not great for my acne-prone complexion. Maybe once my skin clears up this’ll be a staple product.
This serum is amazing! I have applied this product to my face every morning for the past two months, and my skin has never looked better.
I always use a serum under my moisturizer. I Love this stuff! Feels sooooo good on my skin. I use it on my face, neck, and chest area. Seriously considering buying the full sized, which I rarely do after sampling a product. This one really impressed me!
I love Kiehl's products, but this is not relevant to me. I do not have wrinkles. I have used this to help moisturize and it's okay. I am in different about this product.

Stepping into a garden filled with beautiful flowers creates an exciting table setting. Break resistant Melamine Plates by plateshoppe.com.Dishwasher safe. Handmade in the USA.
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, GRAB A SLICE OF CAKE AND JOIN THE FUN.
Have a party using these colorful break resistant Melamine Plates and Platters by plateshoppe.com. Dishwasher safe. Handmade in the USA.
Butterfly Dinner Plate made of break resistant Melamine by plateshoppe.com. Dishwasher safe, Perfect for indoor and outdoor entertaining all year round. Handmade in the USA.
Set a beautiful table with these colorful Melamine Dinner Plates by plateshoppe.com. Dishwasher safe. Handmade in the USA.

The 2019 Volkswagen Atlas is a spacious third-row SUV with available all-wheel drive. No matter the trim, it’s up for any Arlington adventure. The Volkswagen Atlas price begins at $30,895, so drivers and six passengers will have plenty of 3rd-row legroom, the Volkswagen Car-Net® App Connect system, and much more. Take a look at the highlights of the Atlas interior, then browse our inventory to find the VW Atlas configuration that works best for your needs at Alexandria Volkswagen!
After you learn more about the 2019 Volkswagen Atlas and compare it to the VW Tiguan SUV or the Honda Pilot, visit Alexandria Volkswagen to take it for a test drive! Our friendly sales staff will walk you through the Volkswagen Atlas interior in person, as well as go over any add-on interior features that you’re curious about. We can even cover how much the VW Atlas can tow. We hope to see you soon at our Alexandria dealership!

As we continue this series, beBATONROUGE chooses to share Raymond A. Jetson’s “What I’m Reading” interview. Jetson is the Chief Executive Catalyst of MetroMorphosis. In this role, he uses his extensive network and reservoir of social capital – as a former legislator, pastor and other executive roles in state agencies, to deploy resources to advance the strategies of the organization. Mr. Jetson is an experienced leader and an important “connector” for intersectional collaboration between community members, stakeholders and systems.
During the interview we discussed two of MetroMorphosis‘s initiatives, the Urban Congress for the African-American Male and the Urban Leadership Development Initiative. I’ve provided a description of both initiatives for context. Urban Congress is a coalition created to understand the challenges that impact the quality of life for Black boys and men and then leverage the communities to transform their lives, their families, and surrounding neighborhoods. The Urban Leadership Development Initiative a year-long program teaches select individuals how to identify opportunities, develop innovative solutions, and build coalitions designed to foster positive, long-term change.
First of all, if you don’t know your history, then you don’t know your future.
I see you chose two books, “The Biography of Maynard Jackson” by Robert Holmes and “The Practice of Adaptive Leadership” by Alexander Grashow and Ronald Heifetz. Can you tell me a bit about the Maynard Jackson book?
It’s about Maynard Jackson, the first African-American mayor of Atlanta, and he literally changed the trajectory of the city. He changed the economics of the city and African-American life in Atlanta. When faced with the airport building project that is now Hartsfield-Jackson airport, Jackson stood firm and insisted that there be equal distribution of the revenues associated with the project. Jackson insisted upon African-American business participation, along with African-American labor participation in every area of the world. Atlanta is now a city populated by African-Americans who have generational wealth, and that was in large part because of the leadership of Maynard Jackson.
How does this influence your life?
It helps me to understand that the right kind of leadership being practiced impacts others. You know, Maynard Jackson didn’t get rich off the airport, but he was a catalyst and made things happen. The book also helps me to understand that real leadership is about that which lives on after you.
That airport will forever be Hartsfield-Jackson. Even though there are some who will not have a clue who the “Jackson” is in that airport name, Maynard Jackson made a deposit in this Earth. There are young people, especially African-Americans, who will grow up in Atlanta and will inherit a generational wealth. They won’t understand how the lives of their families changed. And so for me, it’s about understanding the need for catalysts, and to sow into the lives of others. That’s the critical ingredient in leadership.
So it seems that this book and your other book, “The Practice of Adaptive Leadership”, overlap.
Yes, yes they do. This [“The Practice of Adaptive Leadership”] is kind of the theory, the textbook. Maynard Jackson, in my opinion, is what it looks like. So as I read Mr. Holmes’ biography of Maynard Jackson, I saw the principles of adaptive leadership being demonstrated in what Jackson was doing. In our work with Metromorphosis, we have the Urban Leadership Development Initiative—where we have a group of urban leaders, and we spend a lot of time talking about the theory and “The Practice of Adaptive Leadership” and “Maynard Jackson” is what it looks like.
Okay. So you apply these principles to the Urban Leadership Development Initiative, and even to the Urban Congress on African-American males?
I mean one of the goals of Urban Congress is to develop generational wealth and those things that are the result of catalytic actions. So these are just two pieces of literature that impact me in the same way, but with their very different reasons you do that.
How would you sell these books to others?
First of all, if you don’t know your history, then you don’t know your future. Maynard Jackson is somebody that every African-American, especially those who espouse to make their community better, should take the time to read. Because here is a man who was the first African-American mayor in a southern city. That was a time of change.
One of my favorite people in the world, Marshall Ganz from the Kennedy School at Harvard, says that real leadership is about moving people forward in the face of uncertainty.
Maynard Jackson stepped into a very uncertain time and was able to mobilize the city in spite of his opposition to deal with some real difficult challenges and “The Practice of Adaptive Leadership” is about mobilizing others to attack on tough challenges and still thrive. Atlanta is a thriving city today because of Maynard Jackson.

Coláiste Chiaráin are delighted to announce their forthcoming production of ‘The Addams Family- The Musical’.
Over the years Coláiste Chiaráin has been renowned for its remarkable performances of musical theatre. Some past productions are; Hairspray, Little Shop of Horrors, We Will Rock U, Oliver!, All Shook Up and many, many more.
This production will be one to remember as it will once again showcase the immense musical talent which Coláiste Chiárain has to offer. We are thrilled to welcome back Des Henn (Director) Noel Lennon (Musical Director) and Barbara Meany (Choreographer) to the production team along with an incredible cast and crew, all of which make for an unmissable performance of “The Addams Family”.
Show Producer, Mr. Fergal Moore along with choral director, Ms. Mary-Kate Hanley are determined to provide another amazing show to their audience.
The show will run in the Lime Tree theatre on Friday 25th January and Saturday 26th January at 8pm. Tickets available from the school office and the Lime Tree box office.

You have found your Bremerton WA Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor that will do quality Tile Roofing work for you!
At Ampro Roofing we have been the Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor in Bremerton WA for our customers for years. Ampro Roofing's most important aspect is the quality of our Tile Roofing services making us leaders in the industry providing Tile Roofing projects in Bremerton WA. When Searching for a Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor they should offer you options that do more than match the Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor in Bremerton WA. You need to look at how the Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor is rated, how much Tile Roofing experience they have, are they a local Bremerton WA Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor and any further concerns that you may have for your specific project.
At AmPro Roofing, a Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor expert in Bremerton WA, our experienced Tile Roofing contractors work locally in Bremerton WA providing excellent Tile Roofing for Bremerton WA residents and homeowners throughout Bremerton WA and the surrounding areas. So if you are searching for a Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor in Bremerton WA or just need an estimate for your Bremerton WA home... call us. We have trusted Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor in Bremerton WA standing by ready to provide you with the best service and solutions available. We are happy to speak to you even if you simply have a Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor question. Click to see some Testimonials.
Allow our experts to answer your questions about your Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor project, contact AmPro Roofing near Bremerton WA at (425) 533-0626.
AmPro Roofing is headquartered near Bremerton WA! We have a local Bremerton WA office in your community that will ensure your Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor project is done right. We live close and will make this Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor a priority, striving to more than meet your needs. We also will never compromise on using quality materials from top rated manufactures in your Tile Roofing project in Bremerton WA.
Even though a new roof is not always the case, we can tell for sure when one of our Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor experts visit your Bremerton WA home. Most homes here in Bremerton WA require some sort of maintenance that may include a Tile Roofing or other of our expert services that are far too often overlooked. We know how a big decision like getting a Tile Roofing can be very overwhelming. So at AmPro we like to offer all of the Tile Roofing possibilities that are available. We want to make sure you get a Tile Roofing you'll love and performed by a local Bremerton WA Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor leader. We hope this will help to ease your mind about who is doing the Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor work.
Ampro Roofing is known for quality Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor in Bremerton WA.
When you’re looking for a Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor in Bremerton WA, take into consideration AmPro is a Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor expert right here in Bremerton WA. We encourage you ask about our Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor track record and compare it with other Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor competitors here in Bremerton WA. See for yourself our work and Tile Roofing experience, we feel we offer the reliability and peace of mind that you are looking for. As one of our Bremerton WA Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor projects, we want to provide you the best Tile Roofing value in Bremerton WA.
AmPro Roofing has excellent Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor offers including our Manufacturer Approved Roof Systems that provide superior strength and durability. The AmPro Roofing Team are Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor experts and can install a new roof system or a Tile Roofing Maintenance Contractor renovation in Bremerton WA which will be affordable and sturdy. Click here to see the different Manufacturer approved roofing systems that are available.

Wood closet doors – Normally in medium-sized houses, the rooms have a closet included, it may not be the largest of all but it will do the job. In the big houses, the stage is completely different; the cabinets occupy a whole room, where you can feel like in a private clothing store. Whatever the case with which you identify yourself, today we will show you some great ideas of how you can build a beautiful wooden wardrobe that fits your needs. By the way we will take wood as the main material, since it is the most used to build and create closets or closet, it is resistant, durable, keeps moisture away and will be the best way to preserve your clothes.
Destine a whole room to install a wood closet doors made to measure space, are the best solution for a shared closet, separate equally the number of drawers and shelves for an equitable distribution. One of the great benefits of wood is that there are many types you can choose from. In this case we show you this custom made closet option in dark wood. This will also be defined by the decorative style you have in the room. Wooden wardrobe option is one of the most current: large doors that go from floor to ceiling and polished mahogany wood, which goes perfectly with any decoration inside the room. The interior depends on you.
The main thing in a wood closet doors is that it should be practical and with plenty of storage space. This idea of ​​multiple shelves and drawers is excellent, because it allows you to keep all your belongings in order. The more floors, the more space to organize. We must not forget that a sliding door will always be well received, does not occupy space and is easy to hide.

Russia's biggest operator reckons RCS technology gives it a weapon to use against its web-scale rivals.
Digital transformation will be vital to operators' future prosperity.
The growing appeal of Internet telephony and messaging applications leaves Africa's telcos in a quandary.
Telcos are facing a cataclysmic upheaval that will force them to overhaul their technologies, culture and business practices.
Light Reading editors Iain Morris and Ray Le Maistre discuss some of the key issues that are driving telco transformation strategies.
Which of the following should a telco transform first?

The residents of Tower Block 31 are terrified after witnessing the brutal murder of a young man. The case is left unsolved, due in large part to their collective silence. A year later, with their building marked for demolition, the witnesses begin to find themselves picked off one by one by a mysterious sniper out for justice. Pitted against not only the sniper’s deadly traps, but also each other, the residents must figure out a way to escape their own building…or die trying.
Featuring critically hailed performances by Jack O’Connell (300: Rise Of An Empire) and Sheridan Smith (Quartet) and co-starring Ralph Brown (Stoker), and Russell Tovey (BBC’s Being Human), Tower Block is a pulse-pounding thriller that delivers gritty action and relentless suspense!

Lock in a great price for Lesní pension – rated 8.2 by recent guests!
The owner come to pick us up with his car anf was so kind, the room was clean and the view at the morning was fabulous. Breakfast is ok , similar to all Czech Republic hotels/pension but satisfied.
Good location with a nice view from the terrace and very friendly staff.
Der Ausblick vom Zimmer war einfach wunderschön, direkt auf den lipno See. Das Zimmer hatte eine ausreichende Größe und einen schönen großen Balkon. Der Frühstücksraum war gemütlich und mit einem großen Kamin versehen.
Snídaně byla vynikající,moc jsme si pochutnaly. Penzion na krásném a klidném místě. Škoda,že jsme se nemohli zdržet déle z pracovních důvodů.
Persone gentilissime , colazione sopra la media , camera con vista lago eccellente .
Mysigt pensionat med ljuvlig utsikt över Lipnosjön. Mysig och barnvänlig atmosfär och sköna rum, dock kanske väl retrofärgade för den känslige. Barnpool och lekplats! Trevlig personal.
- ubytovanie uprostred lesa, naozaj veľmi pekné prostredie - čistota - záhrada pred penziónom - milý personál Keby bola cena do 100€, napíšem len pozitívne hodnotenie. Ale... (viď nepáčilo).
Pokoje prostorné s vlastním balkonem jsou super, i když v zimě se zrovna nevyužijí. Snídaně byla velmi bohatá, vybere si opravdu každý. Pro letní dovolenou určitě i dobrá možnost pobíhání děcek okolo, hřiště i bazén.
Bohaté snídaně, hezké místo u lesa a výhled na Lipno.
Lesní pension This rating is a reflection of how the property compares to the industry standard when it comes to price, facilities and services available. It's based on a self-evaluation by the property. Use this rating to help choose your stay!
Lesní Penzion Kobylnice has a children´s playground, an outdoor swimming pool for children, volleyball and table tennis facilities. Also on site are an infrared sauna, a hot tub and a restaurant.
Rooms at the Penzion are spacious and have a balcony with views of Lipno Dam. They have a bathroom, seating area, free Wi-Fi and TV. Breakfast is served each morning.
Private parking is available on site free of charge, and the Lipno ski area can be reached by car in 5 minutes.
The property is located 2.2 mi from Lipno nad Vltavou’s town center. Lipno Dam is a 10-minute walk away, and Frymburk is 3.1 mi away. The Vyšší Brod Monastery and Český Krumlov are 30 minutes away by car.
When would you like to stay at Lesní pension?
House Rules Lesní pension takes special requests – add in the next step!
A deposit via bank wire is required to secure your reservation. Lesní Penzion Kobylnice will contact you with instructions after booking.
The link for navigation to the property was poor,we find ourselves in the middle of nowhere at the dark.

Herbert Wise was a director best known for his work on the BBC miniseries I, Claudius. The series, set during the Roman Empire, aired in the U.S. in 1976 on PBS’s Masterpiece Theatre.
I, Claudius garnered Wise, who also notably took charge of casting 236 parts for the project, an Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Directing in a Drama Series. The story unfolded over 13 episodes and starred Derek Jacobi in the title role and John Hurt as Caligula. It was also nominated for Outstanding Limited Series and won the Emmy for Outstanding Art Direction for a Drama Series.
Wise received Emmy recognition again in 1982, when he was nominated for directing the television movie Skokie, starring Danny Kaye, Eli Wallach and Brian Dennehy. The telefilm was based on the true story of the predominantly Jewish community of Skokie, Illinois, protesting the right for Neo-Nazis to march in their town.
Additionally, Wise directed Richard Burton as Winston Churchill in the 1997 BBC Hall of Fame production The Gathering Storm, which aired on NBC. Wise directed Jacobi again in the 1996 BBC telefilm Breaking the Code, about mathematician Alan Turing, as well as Albert Finney as the title character in 1984’s Pope John Paul II and Robert Mitchum and Deborah Kerr in the 1985 romantic drama Reunion at Fairborough.
Wise died August 5, 2015, in London, England. He was 90.

Barbara Brown Taylor is the Butman Professor of Religion at Piedmont College in rural northeast Georgia. An Episcopal priest since 1984, she is the author of twelve books, including the New York Times bestseller An Altar in the World. Her first memoir, Leaving Church, met with widespread critical acclaim, winning a 2006 Author of the Year award from the Georgia Writers Association. Barbara lives with her husband on a working farm in the foothills of the Appalachians.
We are so fortunate to be welcoming Barbara Brown Taylor to the 2013 Festival of Homiletics. You are sure to come away inspired and motivated following an evening spent with one of the best known preachers in the United States.

Composed by Dmitri Shostakovich (1906-1975). Op. 102. Piano duet book (requires 2 copies for performance) for piano duet (2 pianos, 4 hands). With solo part and piano reduction. F Major. Published by International Music Co.
Composed by Dmitri Shostakovich (1906-1975). Set of performance parts (includes separate pull-out violin part) for violin and piano. With solo part and piano reduction. A Minor. 76 pages. Published by Sikorski.
Unlocking the Masters Series. By Dmitri Shostakovich. AMADEUS. Softcover with CD. Size 6x9 inches. 217 pages. Published by Amadeus Press.
Two Pianos, Four Hands. By Dmitri Shostakovich. (Piano). Piano Large Works (Arranged for piano). Book only. Size 9.25x12.5 inches. 64 pages. Published by Sikorski.
Study Score. By Dmitri Shostakovich. (score). Study Score. Size 4.2x7.5 inches. 104 pages. Published by Boosey & Hawkes.
Set of performance parts. By Dmitri Shostakovich. Arranged by Mstislav Rostropovich. (Cello). String Solo. Size 9.25x12.25 inches. 68 pages. Published by Sikorski.
Composed by Dmitri Shostakovich (1906-1975). This edition: softcover. Study score. 104 pages. Sikorski #SIK6621. Published by Sikorski (HS.50499484).
Study Score. By Dmitri Shostakovich. (score). Study Score. Size 6x8.2 inches. 72 pages. Published by Sikorski.
By Dmitri Shostakovich. (Score). Study Score. Book only. Size 6x8.25 inches. 72 pages. Published by Hal Leonard.
Study Score. By Dmitri Shostakovich. (score). Study Score. Size 5.25x7.5 inches. 112 pages. Published by Boosey & Hawkes.
Set of performance parts. By Dmitri Shostakovich. Arranged by David Oistrakh. (Violin). String Solo. Size 8.25x11.75 inches. 64 pages. Published by Sikorski.
By Dmitri Shostakovich. Cello and piano. Published by International Music Co.
Study Score. Composed by Dmitri Shostakovich (1906-1975). Study Score. Score. 128 pages. Sikorski #SIK2241. Published by Sikorski (HS.50481440).
Two Pianos, Four Hands. By Dmitri Shostakovich. (Piano). Piano Large Works (Arranged for piano). Book only. Size 9x12.3 inches. 52 pages. Published by Sikorski.
Full Score. By Dmitri Shostakovich. (score). Study Score. Size 6x8.2 inches. 120 pages. Published by Sikorski.

The Duplicates by VIN report shows invoices that have both the same VIN and the same service, so that you can see if any service was done for the same vehicle more than once.
Note By default, the period within which invoices with the same VIN and service are reported is 120 days; however, you can change the reporting period.
On the Company tab, click Company Info; on the Company Settings tab, click the Duplicates by VIN History box, and then click the appropriate period from one month to one year.
To generate the Duplicates by VIN report, in the Search pane, enter the appropriate filter settings, and then click Find.
Area/Team allows searching duplicates in invoices created by employees from a particular team.
Client allows searching duplicates in invoices created for a particular client.
Date From and Date To defines the period within which the searched invoices were created.
Exclude Exported defines whether invoices with the Exported status must be removed from search results.
Click the Export icon on the toolbar to export the report to PDF, MS Word, MS Excel, CSV, or TIFF file.
Click the Next Page icon on the toolbar to show the next page of the report.
Click the Previous Page icon on the toolbar to show the previous page of the report.
Click the First Page icon on the toolbar to show the first page of the report.
Click the Back icon on the toolbar to return to the main report if you clicked a link in the report to view subsets of the report data.
Invoice # lets you click the link to show invoice printout.
Status shows the current status of invoice.
Date shows the date when invoice was created.
Tech Codes shows employee Accounting ID.
Invoice $ shows invoice amount.
Tip You can also see invoices with duplicates by VIN on the Invoices page.
On the Operations tab, click Invoices; and then click the by VIN link in the Duplicates column next to the appropriate invoice.

Seane Corn and Colleen Saidman Yee explore how yoga gives us the tools to make mindful decisions and change the world.
Rodney Yee explains his teaching philosophy, how yoga empowers him to directly touch life, and what he thinks is the most important thing to ask a new student.
Kino MacGregor discusses how the different roles played by home practice and study with teachers combine in our own personal yoga journeys.
Elena Brower shares her philosophy with Beryl Bender Birch, from the one sutra every new teacher needs, to her hope for asana in the world.
Join us for a lesson in the role of choice, change and faith in the practice of yoga when Beryl Bender Birch interviews professor Dr. John Campbell Ph.D.

Your use of this Internet Site in any manner, including browsing, logging in, creating an account, sending a request or making a purchase, constitutes your acknowledgement that you have read all the Terms and Conditions and that you agree to follow and be bound by them. Cruising2Tahiti.com reserves the right to modify or change the Terms and Conditions at any time without prior notice to you, therefore, we urge you to read them carefully each time you use this Internet Site.
The information, artwork, text, or pictures (collectively the "Content" C) contained on the Website are protected by copyright laws. You may access and use any of the Web pages from this Internet Site provided that such use is for your personal non-commercial and lawful use. You may not modify or use the content for any other purpose without Cruising2Tahiti.com's express written consent. You may not reproduce, republish, post, transmit or distribute any content on the Website. You may print content from the Website for personal or educational purposes only, and such copies must clearly include any original copyright notices. Any computer software downloadable or otherwise available from the Website is licensed subject to the terms of the applicable license agreement. You may not, under any circumstances, reproduce, record, publish, publicly exhibit, or distribute any content on the Website without Cruising2Tahiti.com's express written consent. You may not link directly to any file located on a Cruising2Tahiti.com server, and you should not attempt to "pass-off" any of Cruising2Tahiti.com's content as your own work.
The content included on the Website have been compiled by Cruising2Tahiti.com from a variety of manual and automated sources, and are subject to change without notice. While Cruising2Tahiti.com makes every effort to ensure complete and accurate information, it is not a complete live online system. Rather, the content is collected periodically for display, and as such is subject to change at any time. Supplier descriptions of hotel names, room categories, and meal plans, are translated from data downloads, and may be vague in description, and can contain errors in pricing. Ultimately, the data presented does not constitute an offer of sale, and is only guaranteed upon verification by our staff at the time of booking.
Cruising2Tahiti.com does not guarantee that the information contained on this Internet Site will not contain errors, inaccuracies or omissions. Such errors, inaccuracies or omissions may relate to price or to product or service description or availability. Cruising2Tahiti.com reserves the right to correct any error, inaccuracy or omission or to change or update the Content without prior notice to you. Further, Cruising2Tahiti.com reserves the right to refuse or cancel any orders or reservations containing any error, inaccuracy or omission, whether or not the order or reservation has been submitted, confirmed and/or your credit card has been charged. If your credit card has been charged for the purchase and your order or reservation is cancelled, Cruising2Tahiti.com shall promptly issue a credit to your credit card.
The sites linked from the Website are not under Cruising2Tahiti.com's control, and Cruising2Tahiti.com does not assume any responsibility or liability for any communications or materials available at such linked sites. Cruising2Tahiti.com does not intend links on the Website to be referrals or endorsements of the linked entities, and are provided for convenience only.
Cruising2Tahiti.com, Cruising2Tahiti.com and related logos and trademarks as well as certain other names, words, logos, images, marks, trade names, and trademarks used on this Internet Site, are the properties of their respective owners. You may not use, reproduce, copy or manipulate any such logos, trademarks, slogans, images, marks, or trade names in any manner without the prior written consent of the owner.
All content of this Internet Site, including all information, design, photographs, maps, icons, graphics, text, data and software (collectively, "Content") and the presentation and arrangement of such Content are subject to intellectual property rights, including copyright, trademark, or other proprietary rights or licenses held by Cruising2Tahiti.com and other third parties. All such rights are expressly reserved.
Please note that all content on this Website is provided on a "as is" and "as available" basis. Cruising2Tahiti.com disclaims any and all warranties and liabilities of Cruising2Tahiti.com, whether express or implied, arising from the use of the Website. Cruising2Tahiti.com does not warrant the accuracy or completeness of content on this Website.

As of March 12, 2018, we will no longer be updating or maintaining the WannaCrypt Patch (MS17-10) collection. Even though we’ve removed the collection from the Collection Library, there are still ways to identify and keep computers patched.
It’s been nearly a year since the mass hysteria after WannaCrypt and its nasty host of friends hit newsstands. If you need a refresher, we previously posted about this vulnerability here.
First, maintaining the collections each month takes up valuable resources and time. These would be better put to use making PDQ Deploy and PDQ Inventory even more powerful than they already are—not that we’re biased or anything.
Second, you are already patched for the WannaCrypt vulnerability if you’ve been regularly applying Microsoft Windows Updates to your machines. Microsoft released the patches for the MS17-10 vulnerability a year ago in March of 2017, with a few exceptions (looking at you, Windows XP). For more information, refer to Microsoft Security Bulletin MS17-010 – Critical.
Many of you have been using the WannaCrypt Patch (MS17-10) collection to determine whether any machines on your network are vulnerable. If you currently have any collections, schedules, reports, or other references pointing to the WannaCrypt collection, you will need to update those to prevent incorrect or accidental deployments. I’m going to walk you through an easy way to stay current.
The Windows Updates collections in the PDQ Inventory Collection Library identify which computers do not have the most current cumulative update or monthly rollup. Remember, the most recent Windows Updates include the WannaCrypt patches, as well as the patches to mitigate other vulnerabilities.
We recommend using these collections along with PDQ Deploy to automate Windows patch management. Our products are designed to work together to automatically deploy updates to the computers that need it; a true set-it-and-forget-it.
If this is the first time you’re hearing about Auto Download packages, take a look at all of our Auto Download videos.
We recommend downloading two Windows Update packages from the Package Library; one for testing and another for production. This allows you to deploy the most current Windows updates to a pilot group of computers (perhaps belonging to your IT colleagues) to ensure that the update doesn’t break any of your end-users’ critical applications.
Open the package and add to the name for identification purposes (optional).
Change the approval setting to Immediate (Package Properties > Options tab).
The second Windows update package will be for the rest of your environment.
Using a Manual approval setting will allow you sufficient time for testing to ensure the Windows Updates don’t make it out to any end-users until after testing is complete. However, if you know the amount of time the testing will take, you can select a set number of days with the Automatic approval setting.
Download a second Windows update package.
(Optional) Add identification to the package name.
Now that you have two identical packages with different approval settings, you just need to set up a schedule. The schedule won’t deploy the new versions of packages until after approval.
Here is a video that walks you through establishing a schedule.
To ensure these packages deploy to computers that need the update, you can link to the PDQ Inventory Windows Update collections we discussed earlier.
Once you’ve created the schedules, the test package will be approved immediately after the update is released and deployed. You can then approve the production package for mass deployment to the rest of the organization once you are reassured no critical applications are affected.
With this setup, the newest version of the Windows Update packages will auto download each month, and the scheduled deployment will only go out to the computers missing the update as defined in PDQ Inventory.

How do you pronounce fashionables in English? Pronunciation of fashionables in English, a free online verbalizing English dictionary.
We are to pronounce fashionables by audio dictionary. This pronounce audio dictionary implement More expeditious, most facile and best way to learn English words pronunciation, no downloads or plug-ins installation required to learn your personal pronunciation in digital mp3 audio in a few seconds, you additionally practice your voice and download audio files, you can provide more precise, better pronunciation voice for your friends!
Can you give more exactness and precision pronunciation for fashionables in your voice?

This past summer a pregnant woman was punched in the face while walking along a street in Brooklyn. She was knocked out, but, fortunately, no lasting harm came to her or to her baby. The assailant, a 33-year old man, was quickly apprehended in what seems to be a completely random act of violence.
No question that the attack was terrible, but is the neighbor’s conclusion accurate? Should we – all of us – fear everyone? I guess, on the one hand, that we might be safer if we do: if we assume that every person, in every situation is trying to hurt us for no reason at all, we will always act to protect ourselves. We will never approach a stranger to say hello or ask if they need help; we will never even smile at them as they walk by. We will always lock our doors, our windows, our cars, and we will always ask ourselves if we are leaving ourselves open to attack – on the street, at work or school, on the bus or train, at the mall, in the park… but is that how we want to live?
Years ago, before 9/11, I gave a sermon in which I asked how many people at that Yom Kippur service knew anyone personally who had been murdered. Out of 900 people in the room, four raised their hands. Now I ask you the same question: with the exception of the vile, calculated attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, how many friends, relatives or acquaintances of yours have been murdered, or even suffered serious injury, at the hand of a stranger?
I spent a lot of time thinking about this before realizing that the answer, for me, is exactly zero. A relative died in World War II, and a college roommate was killed by a rival for his girlfriend’s affections, but not a single friend, relative or acquaintance of mine has been murdered or seriously hurt by a stranger. When I consider how many thousands of people I have known over the course of my life, that’s seems pretty amazing.
But is it so amazing? If we listen to the news it sounds like people are being punched in the face every day, on every street corner. However, if we remember that over 8 million people live in New York City, and another 8 ½ million live in New Jersey, then our chances of being punched by a random stranger on one day in August seem to be around 16,500,000 to one. And since it hasn’t happened again since that day, the chances are hundreds of millions to one. But you wouldn’t know that from the news.
The job of any news organization is not, actually, to give us the news; it is to make us watch or listen or click or read, so they can sell whatever it is they sell to stay in business. Our job is to ask ourselves whether the reports of random violence are relevant to us and whether we should adjust our lives in response. If someone told me that a knife-wielding lunatic was seen in my development, you can be sure I would bolt the doors. But hearing that a man in Brooklyn punched a pregnant woman, despicable as it was, does not lead me to the conclusion that I “have to be afraid of everyone.” It doesn’t even mean that every person in Brooklyn has to be afraid of everyone.
From the TSA farce at airports to security cameras monitoring cars at Freehold Raceway Mall, we are told to be afraid all day, every day. News reports make it sound like we are lucky to get through a single day without harm. But our life experiences do not bear this out.
Yes, bad things happen in life. But far, far fewer than we imagine. The news has its place and purpose, but we should not let it define our lives for us.
“Fear everyone” is a terrible motto to live by. We deserve better.

I was brimming with excitement all of Thursday. I couldn’t stop thinking about my date with Seabiscuit. I was very excited about his joining me at the theater plus the night adventures that would follow.
I hurried home after work, took a quick shower, and headed out. It had been a warm day, and I was doubtful that I needed my jacket; however, then I remembered being cold at a previous performance in the evening. Even though I had checked the weather and saw Orinda was only predicted to be in the low 60s in the evening, I knew that up in the hills, where the theater is actually located, it can get much colder. I felt foolish carrying such a large jacket on BART and felt too warm to need it, but better safe than sorry.
It was good I did. By the time I arrived at the theater, it was significantly cooler. I was happy without a jacket but realized that once the sun finished setting, I would need to put it on. I waited for Seabiscuit to arrive, and was excited to see him clean-shaven–as I had ordered as his Mistress. How good that he should obey so well! And he finally looked like one of his own photographs.
I told him previously that he appeared to be a servant of the Many-Faced God because his face never seemed to match from one photograph to another. The angles were off or something seemed so strange about it. He didn’t look like his photographs. I knew it was him, but how strange and different they all seemed.
There was a crowd, and I could tell he felt a bit shy. We hugged and kissed each other’s cheeks, then held hands as we walked up the hill from Will Call to the theater.
He bought dinner for us at the café, and we continued holding hands. The line was long, and we really only had 10 minutes to eat before needing to be seated. He was impressed by my tickets and how close we were to the stage. The temperature had dropped significantly, so I put on my jacket when we were seated but he was astounded that I didn’t close it until after intermission. I held his hand in his lap during the first half.
During intermission, he rented a blanket while I used the restroom and got my free bag of Peet’s coffee for renewing my subscription for the theater. We shared the blanket, and for the second half, he held my hand on my lap.
The performance was amazing, as all the shows I have seen there have been. CalShakes has done very well at selecting and directing plays that resonate with race issues going on currently, and this play was exceptionally well done in that regard. Seabiscuit enjoyed it greatly, and I told him he should return with me for all of next season. He said he would love to. It was his first time going to the theater in a very long time, and he said the final scenes with the bed on stage would linger in his memory for a long time.

If you are looking for one of the best high end luxury apartment rentals in all of London I highly recommend checking out the Cheval Residence’s Thorney Court Apartments. Located near Hyde Park and Kensington Palace, the apartments are just a short tube ride from the Thames and from being right in downtown London.
Luckily for me I was upgraded to a two bedroom, two and a half bath penthouse suite with the biggest patio for a rental apartment/condo that I have ever experienced. If you are going to stay here you are going to have quite the amount of pocket change but if you can afford it I highly recommend it.
The location is ideal with many grocery stores nearby including a Whole Foods. The concierge are friendly, quick and at your service 24/7. It’s definitely nice when you travel as much as I do when you can go to a grocery store then cook* a meal for yourself in your own kitchen with every utensil imaginable. It is then doubly nice when you realize you don’t have any salt and the concierge brings you a huge container of it in the blink of an eye.
My master suite in the apartment had a comfortable king sized bed, flat screen TV, lots of closet/storage space as well as a large window with a view of the neighbourhood. This apartment was so large that I am pretty sure had I been staying with someone else that they could have been yelling in the living room and I wouldn’t have heard them all the way in the master bedroom. Extremely spacious.
The master suite also had its own bathroom with two double sinks, a bidet, towel warmer, tub/shower and more of the great smelling bath products that the Cheval properties always have. It is nice that they set you up with amenities just as if it was a hotel, the little things like a towel warmer and quality bath products really make a place and bring it together for me.
The second bedroom was a great size as well and its beds could be separated into two single beds if needed. It also had its own full sized bathroom with bidet, warming rack, tub and shower.
Extras in the property include a powder room, great for if you have visitors to entertain keeping them out of your main bathroom. Also one of the things that I love most about Cheval Residences is that you don’t come into the apartment empty-handed without any food. The property provides you with a few essentials so that you don’t have to run out to the store right away. Various apartments that I have stayed in have provided me with bread, butter, milk, water, tea, coffee, biscuits, popcorn and granola.
Another great thing about the Cheval Residences is that they don’t skimp on appliances in the kitchen either. There is always a washer and dryer combo, dishwasher, full sized fridge, coffee maker, tea kettle, stove and oven as well as toasters, coffee makers and more. The drawers are also full of all of the utensils necessary.
Lastly my penthouse suite also had a large living room and a separate dining room area. Just imagine the parties that you could have in this place. The decor to me was very english and made me feel kind of like royalty especially the adorable porcelain dogs on the mantle piece.
To book at stay at the Cheval Residences Thorney Court luxury apartment immediately check it out on Booking.com HERE.
I have also stayed at the Cheval Residences Phoenix House and you can see my review HERE and at the Cheval Residences Gloucester Park which you can view HERE.
My stay was hosted by Cheval Residences, however as always all opinions, views, and dreams conquered are my own.

Every sport brings its own requirements for eyewear, including winter sports. Simon Briggs from Extreme-Eyewear, a specialist sports eyewear company, explains what the main issues are when choosing the right eyewear for your sport.
“Sports eyewear requirements can be broken down into two main areas, eyewear fit and eyewear lenses.
“A sports person's eyewear needs to fit securely and comfortably, ensuring optimal performance in any situation. Each sport has its own requirements for sport sunglasses/eyewear. Many sports are played all year round so its important to have a sunglass lens in your sport sunglasses that will cope with a wide variety of sunlight conditions (from low light to heavy sunshine) or to have interchangeable lenses.
“Some sports are played on reflective surfaces such as water or snow where it is beneficial to have polarised lenses in your sport sunglasses to reduce the sun glare.
"The most popular correction comes in the form of an optical insert which is fitted with your prescription. The insert clips onto the back of the sport sunglasses enabling you to still interchange the ‘main sunglass’ lenses for different colours. As the insert can be removed this concept is also great for contact lens wearers."
"Cosmetically you can often tell there is an insert behind the sunglasses which makes them less than perfect for fashion prescription sunglasses but their functionality makes them idea for sport."
"The second form of correction is 'direct glazed' lenses, where your prescription is fitted into the eyewear frame. Two brands that excel are Oakley and Maui Jim, both manufacturing wrap-around lenses tailored to your prescription.
"Getting your ski goggles right is essential, when skiing or snowboarding a goggle has to be able to deliver good peripheral view, air circulation (to combat fogging), comfort and due to the popularity of helmets now be ‘helmet compatible’.
"There are a number of different sunglass and goggle hybrids available. These clever pieces of kit mean that you can buy your sunglasses and goggles at once. You simply buy a pair of sunglasses with sides that can be clicked off of the frame and replaced with a headband for a more secure fit.
"Some of these models include a padding system, which gives a more comfortable fit when worn as a goggle. The padding simply clicks into place on the back of the sunglass, and turns the sunglass into a full goggle."
"The prescription part of the correction is in the form of an optical insert that sits inside the skiing goggle, behind the main lens. The optical insert has no contact with your face making a perfect fit and allowing the goggle to fit as intended by the manufacturer.
Are There Alternative Corrections Available?"An alternative to optical inserts is to purchase 'Over the glass' ski goggles. These goggles are specifically designed to sit over the top of prescription glasses, having increased ventilation and a wide fit enabling your glasses to comfortably sit underneath."

A probation violation can occur in a number of different ways.
Violations can come from positive urinalysis.
They can come from being out after curfew.
Violations come whenever a special condition or a standard condition of probation are breached.
Special conditions are those conditions that are specifically laid out and are unique to that term of probation. Whereas, standard conditions are those conditions that are standard with every term of probation.
An example of a standard term of probation is not to commit a new criminal offense.
An example of a special term of probation is to complete a drug evaluation and treatment.
What is the legal standard to a probation violation?
In order to violate probation, a probationer must willfully and substantially violate the terms of their probation.
In other words, you can’t accidentally have a probation violation. Also, you can’t violate probation because of an inability to complete an item of probation (despite your best efforts). For example, it’s not a violation of probation to not pay restitution, EVEN WHERE IT IS ORDERED, so long as you don’t have the money to pay it. Consider a guy working full time to support a family and every penny he makes goes to the absolute bare essentials (food, shelter, rent). if that guy didn’t have any money left over to pay restitution costs, then a judge could not find there to be a willful and substantial violation. However, if the same guy had $300 left over every month and he spent it on lottery tickets, then he would have violated because he willfully gambled over paying his restitution.
The state must only prove a probation violation by a preponderance of the evidence.
Probation Violation. Talk to a Probation Lawyer Today.

The lives of people have definitely changed with the help of technological advancements, which you can see right away as you wake up. This includes Envoy America, which this website proudly mentions, especially that it contributes to the welfare of the society. Now that Envoy America is functioning as a one ride-sharing service, they focus on bringing Dementia patients to their destination safe and sound. This is something that proves that their company is a customer-centered one, which definitely deserves a recognition. This is why the Dementia Society of America has given them the Dementia SMART Award. Learn more about the award that has been given to them by clicking this link.
More people are now enjoying the benefits that Envoy America as given to them. All of their drivers have finished a certain certification and training in order for them to be allowed to go on duty. Here in Envoy America, the family members of Dementia patients do not need to worry about them because they can reach their destination in the safest way. To know more about the certification process of Envoy America drivers, read more here.
Dementia patients are often seen as people who can no longer function a hundred percent in their community. Envoy America is aiming to break that statement. Read more here to learn about the benefits of Envoy America to Dementia patients. Check it out as soon as possible to make your loved one with Dementia happy and healthy.
One of the main purposes of Envoy America is to increase the independence of Dementia patients. Through socializing, they can improve their health. Envoy America is the pioneer in making this amazing change. This pioneering company in breaking boundaries for Dementia people has more to offer in the future. It is such a joy that more people are already thinking of the needs of others through their services. The Dementia Society of America has outstandingly helped Dementia patients, too, through their non-medical services. There is more info that you should know about the mission of Dementia Society of America, which you can find as you click here!
Truly, people have already moved to start an incredible change in the society by thinking and implementing their bright ideas. Both Envoy America and Dementia Society of America have strived hard to break barriers. Be part of the change by contacting them.
People with dementia deserve to get the best services, which are made only for them. These companies have truly pushed their limits and smashed walls for the betterment of humankind. Read more about Envoy America as you visit their page. If you wish to contact them, you can do so by emailing or calling them.

I found that more often than not, I wanted to put my development environment inside of Docker, not just my running code. My editor has plugins that help me browse documentation and check my syntax, but none of that works without installing additional stuff, and Docker has made me quite averse to installing anything on my host system.
So, I started stringing together Docker commands to do what I wanted, and I grew frustrated at all the copy/paste, and thought: There’s gotta be a better way.
If you’re interested in how it does this, see the nitty gritty details.
Go to the releases page.
Make sure it’s executable and in your path.
--type go - select the default version (1.6) of the pre-configured Go image.
--type python --version 2.7 - select the 2.7 version of the pre-configure Python image.
Currently, go, clojure, and python are baked in. More will come.
create - Creates an environment.
connect - Connect to an environment.
destroy - Destroys an environment and its home directory.
rebuild - Rebuilds an environment, preserving the environment’s home directory.
run - Creates an environment and immediately connects to it.
start - Starts an environment.
stop - Stops an environment.
inspect - Shows details about an environment as a JSON dump.
list - Lists existing environments.
images - Lists base images or user specific images.
Ensure that the skegio/python:3.5 image is pulled.
Ensure that the skeg ssh key is present. If not, one is generated.
Build an image based on skegio/python:3.5 which includes a user matching the host user.
Start a container running sshd that mounts ~/skegs/myapp in as the user’s home directory and the current directory in as a subdirectory.
Do I have to use one of the pre-configured images?
Not at all. You can create your own image and use it by specifying the -i flag to skeg create or skeg run. For now, your image needs to be based on skegio/base (like nate/aws), but that will change as skeg gets more sophisticated.
Why does skeg run the container as a long running process and connect over SSH rather than only for the lifetime of a process?
Development environments live longer than a single process, and they often involve many processes. Juggling these processes within an SSH session is a well understood problem with great solutions (like tmux), so for familiarity skeg takes the same approach.
Also, there are many times where additional software needs to be installed and daemons run to try something out. A long running container is perfect for these situations. Skeg offers a rebuild command, which will destroy and create the docker container with the same environment home directory, making it easy to reset back to a known state.

Tickets go on sale October 13th.
The NOVA Open Charitable Foundation’s 2017 Fall Model, Warhammer 40K Commissar was donated & painted by David Faust; visit his facebook page for more work.
Leading men has never been a task this old Commissar desired, but rather a necessity to see his people come through. In the harsh battle field toxic dust and chemicals are almost more harmful than the enemy, but this grizzled veteran see it as a way to feel alive and thus has removed his gas mask, a sign of imminent death in one last glorious charge.

Western Sahara is on the Atlantic coast of north-west Africa, between Morocco to the north and Mauritania to the south and east and Algeria to the north-east.
The area of Western Sahara is 266,000 sq km of which 180,000 sq km (68%) is occupied by Morocco and 86,000 sq km (32%) is controlled by SADR, the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic.
In the eighties Morocco divided the territory with a 1,800 km wall or berm made of sand, stone, landmines and barbed wire. The wall is watched over by radars, artillery, and air force, and is protected by 160,000 armed soldiers. Another 920 km of walls have been built inside the occupied area.
Western Sahara is rich in mineral resources, including phosphate mineral rock which Australia imports contrary to international law. Western Sahara has one of the best fishing grounds in the world. Currently its off-shore oil resources are being explored.
Morocco invaded Western Sahara in 1975 when Spain abandoned its former colony. Mauritania seized part of the land, but soon made peace with the Polisario Front, the Saharawi people’s political organisation, which continued the fight against Morocco.
Many Saharawis fled the tanks and aerial bombardments of napalm and cluster bombs of the Moroccan invaders and set up refugee camps near Tindouf in south-west Algeria where more than 165,000 of them now live supported by the UN Food Program and other humanitarian aid.
Those who remained in their homeland have constantly faced arrest, imprisonment, death and “disappearance” at the hands of Moroccan occupying forces. Their escape is blocked by a 2,400km wall dividing Western Sahara into the coastal zone occupied by Morocco and the interior part held by the Polisario Front.
In 1975 the International Court of Justice held that Western Sahara was not terra nullius at the time of its colonisation by Spain and that neither Morocco nor Mauritania had sovereignty over it at that time.
The war between Morocco and the Polisario continued until an UN-African Union brokered a ceasefire in 1991.
The UN has arrangements in place for a referendum of self-determination of the Saharawi people but Morocco refused to allow the referendum to be held.
While life is scarcely viable in the harsh Hamada desert where the refugees live, as there are no means for self sufficiency, the Saharawis living in occupied Western Sahara suffer the terrible oppression already noted.
MINURSO was established to organise a referendum for self-determination of the Saharawi people in 1992 as part of peace process between Morocco and Polisario.
By 1996 the peace process was in stalemate.
In 1997, James Baker (George H. Bush’s Secretary of State) became a UN envoy and drew up a new plan for the referendum, the Framework agreement on the Status of Western Sahara. Morocco refused to co-operate.
In 2003 Baker made a new plan, known as Baker Plan II – Peace plan for self-determination of the people of Western Sahara. This was accepted by the UN and the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR). Morocco still refuses to allow UN sponsored referendum to take place.
Since May 2005, there has been an increase in this oppression. Peaceful demonstrations have been brutally put down. Many Saharawis have been arrested and imprisoned. Some have been tortured and some have “disappeared”. Women and children have been assaulted in their own homes and their property stolen by Moroccan police and soldiers. Outsiders, including parliamentarians from the European Union, Spain and Norway have been refused entry to Western Sahara. So have human rights bodies from Norway and elsewhere.
The Saharawis have their own democratically elected government, the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR), with men and women ministers and parliamentarians. Its officials run the camps. SADR is recognised as the legitimate government of Western Sahara by at least 80 countries, most recently by the Republic of South Africa and Kenya. It is a member of the African Union.
In May 2005 in preparation for the full recovery of all of the Western Sahara territory SADR announced the commencement of a licensing initiative to enable international oil and gas companies to participate in the exploration of its offshore territory.
This licensing initiative is open to all competent and qualified companies and has been arranged in accordance with the UN legal opinion regarding commercial activities in Western Sahara.
SADR believes that development of its significant natural resources will play an important part in developing a self-reliant, democratic and progressive nation in Western Sahara.
The present situation cannot continue. The oppression of the Saharawis in occupied Western Sahara must stop. The refugees in the camps must feel safe to return to their own country after the referendum to be ruled by a government that they elect directly.
The UN, the African Union, the European Union and nations individually must act to ensure that Morocco no longer precludes the referendum on self-determination for the Saharawi people from taking place.
The Saharawi people must be allowed to determine their own future through a free and fair UN sponsored referendum.

“Beth McCullough serves as our volunteer marketing manager for SolarTech, a Photovoltaic (PV) industry consortium focused on creating a Solar Center of Excellence in the Silicon Valley. In 2009 she helped us update the graphics on our website, and created an internal communications guide for outbound communication consistency across the consortium. This year Beth is responsible for writing content, implementing our email campaigns and distributing press announcements; these are all critical components in managing relationships and communicating with our partner companies and sponsors.
“While I was CEO of the Chase Group, I hired Beth to run the numerous day-to-day functions of event and tradeshow planning. I knew she could hit the ground running because of her industry background; I got to see her firsthand while she was a client at SEMI. Very detailed-oriented and conscientious, Beth helped eBay – one of our biggest clients – save over $100,000 on a custom tradeshow kiosk. This project required custom fabrication as well as overcoming unique shipping challenges using industry knowledge and connections.
During the pre-planning for our Power Seller Awards Dinner for eBay and Paypal, Beth used her diplomatic skills to successfully negotiate with eight of the top restaurants in San Francisco. Great at follow through, she arranged multiple menus ensuring high quality while keeping costs within budget and delivering everything on time.
“I’ve known Beth for 10 years when we did work at IDEMA and for eBay at The Chase Group. She’s amazing with details, deadlines and event management. She makes sure that nothing falls through the cracks and there are no surprises onsite.
Most recently, we managed a chapter event for the International Association of Exhibitions and Events. Taking initiative for all the social media communication for our event, Beth wrote all the messaging including invitations, curriculum, and background information to draw the 20+ attendees.
“I’ve hired Beth many times over the years at SEMI because of her skill and knowledge. Our division focuses on environmental health, safety and sustainability issues, supporting 2000 corporate clients worldwide. Responsible communicating with over 5,000 professionals in our membership, Beth also managed our contact database and event coordination for our tradeshows. She’s done everything related to logistics, ensuring we have everything needed for specific seminars or programs, to pre- and post-planning.
“I’ve known Beth for years and she helped IDEMA with the DISKCON USA Tradeshow in 2009. Her background with tradeshow and event management is impressive. Always reliable, Beth knows exactly what needs to be done. When I was unexpectedly ill the day before our event, Beth stepped in. Because she’s cool under pressure and keeps a strategic head on her shoulders, I didn’t worry about anything. I knew I could rely on her to take care of everything.

Volunteers are vital to Thames Reach in our efforts to end street homelessness and support vulnerable and socially excluded people across London.
As well as helping individuals to take steps forward in their lives, volunteering also offers opportunities to learn, meet new people and experience something different.
Benefacto is a social enterprise helping to get people who work in a professional capacity to volunteer in their local communities. Since last June, they’ve been arranging for professional and corporate volunteers to dedicate some of their time to helping Thames Reach clients at iReach, a weekly digital skills workshop at our Employment Academy in Camberwell.
iReach gives people with little or no computer skills the opportunity to learn at their own pace. Funded by the Worshipful Company of Information Technologists, the workshop teaches practical digital skills, so clients can access services and benefits online, and can also help to reduce social isolation.
Benefacto volunteer Molly spent an afternoon volunteering at an iReach session earlier this month. “You take it for granted but lots of people can’t use a computer,” she said. “It’s so important for applying for jobs and staying in contact with friends and family.
“You can see people’s progress throughout the session. As a volunteer you want to get to a stage where you’re almost in the way. There was a lot of people at the session, everyone was enjoying it, it was amazing to see,” she added.
Stevie Back, volunteer coordinator at Benefacto, said: “Doing this gives volunteers a chance to touch down with perhaps an unfamiliar reality and realise the importance of digital inclusion.
“We’ve spent a long time seeking out the right charities for our volunteers. People working in a professional or corporate environment will tend to have digital skills they can impart through sessions like iReach, which is a fantastic project.
“We’ve really enjoyed working with Thames Reach and will continue to do so. We’ve had 23 volunteers helping out with iReach. They share their expertise and make contact with people in their communities they might otherwise never have met,” she said.
Thames Reach digital support worker Chris Hamm, who runs the iReach sessions, said: “When our service users first arrive, some are apprehensive about using the equipment. Some have almost no previous experience of using computers.
“After a while, though, you can see how self-confident our learners become. The transformation is lovely to watch and the knowhow that our volunteers share with them plays a big part in that,” he said.

A quiet place to read or check out a book.
The Perlman Center for Learning and Teaching (the LTC) coordinates programs for new and experienced faculty, circulates new information about teaching theories and strategies, and helps to identify problems and suggest solutions for classroom practice.
Located in the Weitz Center for Creativity, the LTC is home to a small library and reading room open throughout the day while classes are in session. Drop by to read, research, or talk. But also think of the LTC as a metaphor for the creation of the quiet space and the free moments it takes to examine the work we do and why.
Do you have a suggestion for an upcoming LTC event? Proposals for winter term 2019 lunch topics and book groups are being accepted through Monday, October 22, 2018. Please use our online suggestion form to submit your idea.

Philipp Plein's collection exudes hard-edged decadence with an intricate focus upon detailing. Crafted in Italy from aqua blue leather, goat skin and rubber, these sneakers feature a round toe, a flat sole, a lace fastening, a mix of stone embellishments and a logo patch at the tongue.
Philipp Plein's AW18 collection exudes hard-edged decadence with an intricate focus upon detailing. These sneakers feature a rubber sole, a round toe and a lace-up front fastening.
Crafted in Italy from a supple calf leather, these white low-top sneakers from Philipp Plein feature a round toe, a lace-up front fastening, a branded insole, a logo to the side and a contrasting flat rubber sole.
Philipp Plein's AW18 collection exudes hard-edged decadence with an intricate focus upon detailing. These sneakers feature a rubber sole, a round toe, a lace-up front fastening and a panelled design.

El Dorado Acres Homes: El Dorado's Best & West of 41! Freshly painted interior and exterior. New roof in 2018. New A/c 2015. This bright and airy three bedroom/two bath pool home has a lot to offer. Tile throughout with warm wood lamainte in bedrooms. Soaring cathedral ceilings with plant shelves. Oversize lot and partially fenced by neighbor. Front loader washer and dryer. On city water and well water for irrigation. Pantry. Ample storage/closets. Double car garage. Central vacuum. Side by side refrigerator. Glass top stove. Granite countertop in both bathrooms. Vacant and easy to view!
Need professional assistance selling your property at El Dorado Acres Bonita Springs? Find out how an Area Specialist can help to generate more property exposure in order to get the most money for your investment in the least amount of time.

The physician assistant (PAs) field has been named one of the “Best Jobs in America” according to CNN Money, Glassdoor and the Huffington Post. Also named one of the “Top Paying Jobs” by Forbes, along with the U.S. Department of Labor Statistics reporting that employment for PAs is rising faster than the average occupation through 2022, there is no better time to get your career started in the medical field.
NP PA Recruiters knows how tough it is to find a career in the healthcare industry. We want to help and see you succeed!
Nearly half of all PAs had a higher income from 2014 through 2015 compared to previous years with a slightly higher percentage being optimistic about their future salary for the upcoming year, according to The Clinical Advisor’s 2015 annual salary survey. The average salary amongst all PAs was $105,013. The highest salaries by geographic region were found in the west, with the average being $112,119.
As PAs continue to play an integral role in today’s healthcare industry, demand has steadily increased. Over 11,000 jobs are available on Glassdoor alone and AllHealthCare.com reports that most job openings for PAs are in California, Texas, Florida and New York.
With a great demand and rising salary, PAs are a necessity in today’s healthcare industry. At NP PA Recruiters, our staff of professionals wants to help you find the perfect beginning in the medical field. We are wholly dedicated to identifying, qualifying and delivering healthcare providers for clinics in need. If you would like to learn more, apply online or give us a call at 956.772.1400 or 214.351.3880.
A new survey from the American Association of Nurse Practitioners revealed that nurse practitioners (NPs) entering the workforce in 2015 might have picked the best time to jump in. The survey revealed high pay across the board for NPs along with several benefits.
Nurse practitioners are earning high wages. Let us help you get started in the field.
According to the survey, 22.5% of nurse practitioners are paid at an hourly rate. For an NP at a full-time practice, the hourly pay rate hovered around $53.16. The vast majority of NPs (74.7%) are salaried, with their annual base sitting at around $97,083.
On top of salary, 30.1% of NPs reported incentive and productivity bonuses. Most (41.3%) received bonuses based on practice revenue or profit, while 31.8% reported bonuses based on quality measures and 27.7% received bonuses based on patient satisfaction.
Additional benefits reported in the survey were as follows: 71.9% of employers were reported to offer continuing education reimbursement while others offered 66.7% professional leave to attend conferences or meetings, and 54% of employers covered costs for registration for said conferences and meetings.
Pay for nurse practitioners has risen since 2013 and now is as good a time as ever to join the workforce. Here at NP PA Recruiters, we strive to not just find you a career; we find you the right career. We assign you a consultant that is available 24/7 to help you find your perfect fit. To find out more about how we can help place you in the right position, give us a call or apply online to help get you started.
Healthcare is one of the strongest fields in our economy. It allows nurse practitioners (NPs) and physician assistants (PAs) an overwhelming reason to rejoice. The other reason being that both professions saw an increase in salaries last year.
Full-time salaries increased by more than $5,000 for both fields according to the 2013 National Salary Survey of NPs & PAs, which is an annual survey conducted by ADVANCE for NPs & PAs. Pay scales can also vary depending on market conditions and employers, though information from the salary report is good news for the healthcare industry overall.
These figures represent a major increase from numbers recorded in 2012 when NPs made over $8,000 less than what they earned in 2013. The PA salary increase, which rose by $13,000, was slightly higher over the two-year span.
Last year, the average full-time nurse practitioner earned a salary of $98,817 while the average full-time physician assistant earned $107,268. The results from the survey showed that hourly wages for PAs were the only ones that slightly decreased.
If the overall expectations for NP and PA salaries remain constant, then both are on their way to being extremely financially-rewarding professions in the healthcare industry.
NP PA Recruiters is a full-service healthcare staffing company committed to keeping employers and career seekers informed with up-to-date industry information. Whether you are searching for a new career or are trying to fulfill your staffing needs, our consultants are available to help you achieve your goals.

3 Defenders (O’s) set up triangle zone, lead point towards where the ball is, denying any passes to attackers in the “dangerous space” - central area inside 3 Attackers inside 23m area.
Defenders shift the zone, protecting central area of defence and looking to intercept.
The shape of the defensive zone should change as it shifts side-to-side, depending on ball position and where attackers are. For example, if the ball is on the defensive left side, the back left player in the triangle might push up almost level with the lead point of the triangle (who will be in a more direct line to the ball.
Against a zone, attackers do not need to interchange/switch as much. Instead, attackers should look to find seams in between defenders in the zone to cut back into.
Zone defending should be more efficient for defenders’ movement. Slight adjustments in positioning can cover dangerous passing lanes.
Be aware of attackers switching/interchanging positions. Although staying in a zone structure, defenders must still be aware of dangerous lines and watch for attackers leading out into spaces in between zone.

Residential buildings account for a significant amount of the national energy consumption of all OECD countries and consequently the EU and the Netherlands. Therefore, the national targets for CO2 reduction should include provisions for a more energy efficient building stock for all EU member states.
National and European level policies the past decades have improved the quality of the building stock by setting stricter standards on the external envelope of newly made buildings, the efficiency of the mechanical and heating components, the renovation practices and by establishing an energy labelling system. Energy related occupancy behavior is a significant part, and relatively unchartered, of buildings’ energy consumption. This thesis tried to contribute to the understanding of the role of the occupant related to the energy consumption of residential buildings by means of simulations and experimental data obtained by an extensive measurement campaign.
The first part of this thesis was based on dynamic building simulations in combination with a Monte Carlo statistical analysis, which tried to shed light to the most influential parameters, including occupancy related ones, that affect the energy consumption and comfort (a factor that is believed to be integral to the energy related behavior of people in buildings). The reference building that was used for the simulations was the TU Delft Concept House that was built for the purposes of the European project SusLab NWE. The concept house was simulated as an A energy label (very efficient) and F label (very inefficient) dwelling and with three different heating systems.
The analysis revealed that if behavioral parameters are not taken into account, the most critical parameters affecting heating consumption are the window U value, window g value, and wall conductivity. When the uncertainty of these parameters increases, the impact of the wall conductivity on heating consumption increases considerably. The most important finding was that when behavioral parameters like thermostat use and ventilation flow rate are added to the analysis, they dwarf the importance of the building parameters in relation to the energy consumption. For the thermal comfort (the PMV index was used as the established model for measuring indoor thermal comfort) the most influential parameters were found to be metabolic activity and clothing, while the thermostat had a secondary impact.
The simulations were followed by an extensive measurement campaign where an in-situ, non-intrusive, wireless sensor system was installed in 32, social housing, residential dwellings in the area of Den Haag. This sensor system was transmitting quantitative data such as temperature, humidity, CO2 levels, and motion every five minutes for a period of six months (the heating period between November to April) and from every room of the 32 dwellings that participated in the campaign. Furthermore, subjective data were gathered during an initial inspection during the installation of the sensor system, concerning the building envelope, the heating and ventilation systems of the dwellings. More importantly though, subjective data were gathered related to the indoor comfort of the occupants with the use of an apparatus that was developed specifically for the SusLab project. This gimmick, named the comfort dial, allowed us to capture data such as the occupants’ comfort level in the PMV 7 point scale. In addition further comfort related data like the occupants’ clothing ensemble, actions related to thermal comfort, and their metabolic activity were captured with the use of a diary. The subjective data measurement session lasted for a week for each dwelling. These data were time coupled real time with the quantitative data that were gathered by the sensor system.
The data analysis focused on the two available indoor thermal comfort models, Fanger’s PMV index and the adaptive model. Concerning the PMV model the analysis showed that while the neutral temperatures are well predicted by the PMV method, the cold and warm sensations are not. It appears that tenants reported (on a statistically significant way) comfortable sensations while the PMV method does not predict such comfort. This indicates a certain level of psychological adaptation to occupant’s expectations. Additionally it was found that although clothing and metabolic activities were similar among tenants of houses with different thermal quality, the neutral temperature was different. Specifically in houses with a good energy rating, the neutral temperature was higher than in houses with a poor rating.
Concerning the adaptive model, which was developed as the answer to the discrepancies of Fanger’s model related to naturally ventilated buildings (the majority of the residential sector), data analysis showed that while indoor temperatures are within the adaptive model’s comfort bandwidth, occupants often reported comfort sensations other than neutral. In addition, when indoor temperatures were below the comfort bandwidth, tenants often reported that they felt ‘neutral’. The adaptive model could overestimate as well as underestimate the occupant’s adaptive capacity towards thermal comfort. Despite the significant outdoors temperature variation, the indoor temperature of the dwellings, as well as the clothing of the tenants, were largely constant. Certain actions towards thermal comfort such as ‘turning the thermostat up’ were taking place while tenants were reporting thermal sensation ‘neutral’ or ‘a bit warm’. This indicates that either there is an indiscrimination among the various thermal sensation levels or alliesthesia, a new concept introduced by the creators of the adaptive model, plays an increased role. Most importantly there was an uncertainty on whether the neutral sensation means at the same time comfortable sensation while many actions are happening out of habit and not in order to improve one’s thermal comfort. A chi² analysis showed that only six actions were correlated to thermal sensation in thermally poorly efficient dwellings, and six in thermally efficient dwellings.
Finally, the abundance of data collected during the measurement campaign led the last piece of research of this thesis to data mining and pattern recognition analysis. Since the introduction of computers, the way research is performed has changed significantly. Huge amounts of data can be gathered and handled by evermore faster computers; the analysis of these data a couple of decades ago would take years.
Sequential pattern mining reveals frequently occurring patterns from time-ordered input streams of data. A great deal of nature behaves in a periodic manner and these strong periodic elements of our environment have led people to adopt periodic behavior in many aspects of their lives such as the time they wake up in the morning, the daily working hours, the weekend days off, the weekly sports practice. These periodic interactions could extend in various aspects of our lives including the relationship of people with their home thermal environment. Repetitive behavioural actions in sensor rich environments, such as the dwellings of the measurement campaign, can be observed and categorized into patterns. These discoveries could form the basis of a model of tenant behaviour that could lead to a self-learning automation strategy or better occupancy data to be used for better predictions of building simulating software such as Energy+ or ESP-r and others.
The analysis revealed various patterns of behaviour; indicatively 59% of the dwellings during the morning hours (7-9 a.m.) were increasing their indoor temperature from 20 oC< T< 22 oC to T> 22oC or that the tenants of 56% of the dwellings were finding the temperature 20 oC< T< 22 oC to be a bit cool and even for temperatures above 22 oC they were having a warm shower leading to the suspicion that a warm shower is a routine action not related to thermal comfort.
Such pattern recognition algorithms can be more effective in the era of mobile internet, which allows the capturing of huge amounts of data. Increased computational power can analyse these data and define useful patterns of behaviour that could be tailor made for each dwelling, for each room of a dwelling, even for each individual of a dwelling. The occupants could then have an overview of their most common behavioural patterns, see which ones are energy consuming, which ones are related to comfort and which are redundant, and therefore, could be discarded leading to energy savings. In any case the balance between indoor comfort and energy consumption will be the final factor that would lead the occupant to decide on a customised model of his indoor environment.
The general conclusion of this thesis is that the effect of energy related occupancy behaviour on the energy consumption of dwellings should not be statistically defined for large groups of population. There are so many different types of people inhabiting so many different types of dwellings that embarking in such a task would be a considerable waste of time and resources.
The future in understanding the energy related occupancy behaviour, and therefore using it towards a more sustainable built environment, lies in the advances of sensor technology, big data gathering, and machine learning. Technology will enable us to move from big population models to tailor made solutions designed for each individual occupant.

It’s vital that everyone, from fishers to retailers, scientists to consumers, has confidence in the blue MSC label and the credibility of the claims made by MSC certified organisations.
Below we have detailed the safeguards we put in place to ensure confidence in the MSC label. Collectively, these safeguards make up what we call the MSC assurance system. This system is used to make sure the assessment process for fisheries and supply chain businesses is working and meets best practice.
Additionally, our Fisheries and Chain of Custody Standards, which fisheries and businesses are assessed against, are compliant with international benchmarking bodies.
Under the MSC program, fisheries can get certified if they meet the MSC Fisheries Standard.
The MSC operates a third-party certification program. This means we do not assess or certify fisheries.
Fishery assessments are carried out by teams of auditors who are experts in fisheries science and management and are independent of the fishery and the MSC. The certification process is managed by an independent conformity assessment body (also known as a CAB).
The MSC, in consultation with stakeholders, sets standards for sustainable fisheries and supply chains. The independent assessments are carried out by the CABs, following specific processes that are also set by MSC.
This third-party system means consumers can be confident that the outcomes of assessments are free from the influence of either the client or the MSC.
Third-party certification is widely regarded as the most trustworthy system for objective assessments. However, there can still be risks to the integrity of the system – such as real or perceived conflicts of interest – and these must be mitigated.
There are multiple opportunities for stakeholders to contribute to specific fishery assessments. This helps to ensure assessments are balanced, evidence-based and reflect all available information.
If stakeholders have an issue with the way an assessment has been carried out, they can raise official objections or complaints.
For a fishery to become certified, an assessment team reviews all the evidence received during the assessment process.
This includes evidence from the fishery, a site visit with staff interviews, input from stakeholders during the site visit and submitted in writing, and independent scientific input including from peer reviewers.
Assessment teams can be part of a CAB, or they can be hired by a CAB to complete specific assessments.
CABs also have further assurance systems in place. For example, assessors must submit their reports to the CAB for further review. A second qualified person within the CAB takes the final decision on whether to certify a fishery.
To ensure the consistency, independence and impartiality of the MSC fishery certification process, all fishery assessment reports are peer-reviewed by independent scientists.
For example, the scientists might comment on the scores a fishery received, or on any information that seems to be missing in the CAB’s rationale for the scoring. Any issues raised by the peer reviewers must be considered and responded to by the CAB.
The MSC strengthened the peer review process by formally establishing an independent Peer Review College from 1 September 2017, following an 18-month pilot phase.
The College currently includes around 90 experts in marine science and fisheries management, enabling each assessment to be checked by members with expertise in the relevant field, and without a conflict of interest. The Peer Review College normally assigns two peer reviewers to check each fishery assessment report.
To maintain its impartiality and independence, the College has an Oversight Committee that is appointed by the MSC Board of Trustees. Two additional third-party experts also verify the candidates for each review and provide quality assurance.
Professor at University of Tasmania, consultant through SainSolutions and Commissioner with the Australian Fishery Management Authority. Expert in fishery assessment and fishery management systems, including ecosystem-based approaches.
Vice-President for Science and board member of the International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF). Expert in tuna, large pelagics and Regional Fisheries Management Organisations.
Deputy Director General, Sustainability and Biosecurity, Department of Primary Industries and Regional Development, Government of Western Australia. Expert on fisheries management systems and national-level engagement with the MSC program.
Principal Research Scientist at the Norwegian Institute of Marine Research. Long experience as Editor-in-Chief of marine and fisheries science journals and expert on best practice in scientific publishing, including ethics.
Chief Scientist-Emeritus, Department of Fisheries and Oceans, Canada. Expert in fisheries science and management, conservation of biodiversity and international policy and governance.
Independent consultant, recently retired from the International Council for Exploration of the Sea (ICES), Chair of the ICES Advisory Committee, 2014-2018. Expert on fisheries science and management.
The Peer Review College Oversight Committee reviews the performance of the peer review system at least once a year. Peer reviewer’s comments are checked by the third-party experts along with the responses made by the CABs. If any issues are identified, the College can provide targeted training to the reviewers or make changes to improve the system.
Read more about how we’re maintaining best practice.
All companies that buy and sell certified seafood comply with the MSC Chain of Custody Standard. As with fisheries, these companies are certified by a third-party audit.
This means all seafood sold with the MSC blue fish label can be traced back to a certified sustainable source. This is important because around 30% of seafood globally is mislabelled. DNA testing has shown that mislabelling rates for MSC labelled seafood are less than 1%.
A traceable supply chain is necessary to fight seafood fraud. It means consumers can trust that what they are eating really is what it says on the packet.
Our Chain of Custody Standard set us apart from other sustainable seafood initiatives, such as ratings cards, that don’t guarantee traceability.
We go to great lengths to ensure we meet the highest international benchmarks for credible certification and ecolabeling.
The MSC Fisheries Standard is based in part on the UN FAO Code of Conduct for Responsible Fishing. The Code provides principles and standards for the conservation, management and development of fisheries around the world.
standards based on the three factors - sustainability of target species, ecosystems and management practices.
The MSC runs the first global certification program for wild caught seafood to be recognised by the Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI), an independent benchmark for the credibility of sustainable seafood certification programs. GSSI was developed by a coalition of environmental NGOs, global businesses, industry experts, governments and intergovernmental organisations and is based on UN FAO codes and guidelines.
The MSC program meets all the essential components of the GSSI benchmark, and a further 63 supplementary components relating to issues such as deep sea fishing and vulnerable marine ecosystems.
We are the only wild seafood certification program to be a full member of ISEAL, the global membership association for credible sustainability standards.
Monitoring and evaluation is in place to demonstrate the impacts of the program.
We're regularly audited to ensure that we meet these codes.
Other full members of ISEAL include Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade International and the Forest Stewardship Council.
For 70 years, the International Standards Organisation (ISO) has published standards for companies and certifiers globally. Over 1 million companies are certified to ISO standards including the standard for quality management (ISO 9001).
The following ISO standards are built into the MSC’s assurance system. They define controls on conflict of interest, complaint resolution and accrediting a CAB.
The World Trade Organization (WTO) Technical Barriers to Trade Agreement exists to ensure standards and regulations do not create unnecessary obstacles to trade. ISEAL has sought a legal opinion from the Centre for International Environmental Law (CIEL) which confirms that all organisations consistent with the ISEAL Code of Good Practice, are not technical barriers to trade.
In addition to meeting international norms and guidelines for best practice, our program is well regarded by numerous international organisations who scrutinise the role of standard setting in safeguarding our oceans.
The MSC and other credible standard setters are seen to have a key role to play in helping companies and governments to achieve the United Nations Environment Programme’s Sustainable Development Goals by providing best practice guidance for 'what good looks like' in a specific industry.
MSC certification is used as an indicator in the UN Convention on Biodiversity’s Aichi Targets. Part of the UN’s decade-long initiative to significantly reduce biodiversity loss by 2020, these targets were widely consulted with the international conservation and governance community.
Just as we develop our standards in accordance with the latest scientific understanding, we periodically review our entire program.
The MSC is currently reviewing the assurance system to increase its effectiveness and address real or perceived issues within the system.
The review is focused on key work areas running from 2018-2020.
Assurance Oversight: The first step is to review the overall assurance system and identify any quick wins. This includes strengthening our training programs, improving our Quality Management System, scrutinising conflict of interest controls and more focus on data monitoring.
Certification Process Review: In the medium term, we have identified three key areas of the certification process for review: the closing and tracking of conditions, the objections process and dispute resolution mechanism for stakeholders in fisheries assessments. Improving these processes could help ensure fishery assessments are fair and lead to better outcomes.
Standard Review: On a longer timescale, we are addressing a number of different aspects of the MSC Fisheries Standard through the Fisheries Standard Review.
The Marine Stewardship Council is an international non-profit organisation. We recognise and reward efforts to protect oceans and safeguard seafood supplies.
You can trust that seafood with the blue MSC label was caught by a responsible fishery in a sustainable way.
Data from the MSC is used by the UN Environment Programme to track progress towards international goals to end overfishing and protect biodiversity.

I will clean the coils on my refrigerator at least twice this year.
I will leave the door on my washer open after use to prevent mildew and odors.
I will check and refill my dishwashers rinse aid dispenser every three months for better drying.
I will have my dryer vent line cleaned this year to provide better airflow.
I will change the water filter in my refrigerator to keep the water flowing properly and so it will be pure and clean.
I will clean out the old food from my freezer to provide for better airflow.
I will clean or replace the grease filters in my range hood to prevent fires.
I will clean the inside of my microwave oven to prevent damage.
I will clean spills inside my oven and on the cooktop as they happen.
I will not slam the doors or lids on any of my appliances so they don’t break.
I will use the proper amount of detergent in my washer and dishwasher to get the job done.
I will replace the water hoses on my washer to prevent water damage from a leak.
I will hope these tips help all my appliances to work better and longer but if they don’t, I will call Maslyn & Sons Appliance if I have any appliance repair needs!
H A P P Y N E W Y E A R S!!!!!
Happy birthday to the mom of the Maslyn Sons (and daughter)… we are grateful for you providing our work force! Thanks for all you do. We love you!
A very Merry Christmas from our house to yours.
The Maslyn Mrs. is not know for her love of cooking or cleaning, but one recipe she thinks every cook should know is this brunch family favorite. She though you might like to have it for Christmas morning! It is not low-fat, but hey, it’s a holiday.
Cut up bread in cubes & spread in 1/2 in greased casserole dish.
Mix the rest of the ingredients together & pour over bread.
Use a flat spatula to press down bread so it is fully saturated.
Cover with plastic wrap & let it sit in the fridge over night.
Cook all ingredients except the butter for 2 minutes in a small saucepan on the stove until it is bubbly.
Remove from stove & stir in butter.
Pour over baked strata right before you serve it.
We wish for you a working oven all holiday season long, but if you do happen to need an oven repair, call Maslyn & Sons Appliance and we will be there to help so you can make this tasty recipe for your family. (And remember not to clean your oven right before a big holiday as that is the #1 time ovens tend to go out.
To keep the oven, garbage disposal and kitchen sink drain in good working condition this holiday season, take some precautions. Oven problems usually go unnoticed until the big meal is already inside the oven, so a few minutes spent checking your kitchen appliances could save your holiday season.
Also, as we mentioned at Thanksgiving, avoid running the self-cleaning cycle RIGHT before a big holiday dinner (because this might cause something to go wrong with your oven… do it WELL in advance so if something breaks, you have plenty of time to call Maslyn & Sons Appliance out).
Replace gaskets at the first sign of a leak or if moisture appears on outside of oven.
Avoid pouring grease down your drain into your garbage disposal.
Throw leftovers in the trash or compost pile instead of putting down the garbage disposal.
Ensure there is enough space around appliances to allow heat to escape.
So pleased to welcome a new “daughter-in-love” to our family!
*Replace charcoal filter on your VENT HOOD (1x every 12 months).
*Swap out rubber drain hoses for braided stainless steel on your WASHER to prevent floods and leaks.
Maslyn & Sons Appliance repair does appliance maintenance as well as appliance repair!
Preheat oven to 400 degrees. In a small bowl, mix together mustard, syrup, and vinegar. Place chicken breasts into 9×13 baking dish. Season with salt and pepper.
Pour mustard mixture over chicken. No need to marinate.
Bake for about 30-40 minutes or until meat thermometer reads 165 degrees. Season with rosemary. Prepare for people to ask you to make it again.
“Thanksgiving. It’s like we didn’t even TRY to come up with a tradition. The tradition is, we overeat.
Get your microwave squeaky clean before you have guests for the holiday. It will work better AND be less embarrassing!
Fill a microwave-safe glass or bowl half full of water. Add a tablespoon of white vinegar.
Turn on for 5 minutes. You may need less time in a high-powered microwave oven; keep an eye on it the first time you try this. This will steam up the walls of the microwave and loosen the dried-on gunk.
Remove the glass container (with hot pads). Wipe down the inside of the microwave with a clean rag or paper towel while it is still steamy and the gunk is still softened.
The loose gunk should come off easily now.
Take out the glass tray or turntable and wash it like a dish. You could even run it through the dishwasher if you have time.
We hope your appliances stay in tip-top working order as you enter this busy holiday season, but if they don’t, call Maslyn and Sons Appliance and we will come out and do your microwave repair in a jiffy!

The Chapel was completed in 1874 under Mother Xavier Maguire's directions and forms part of the old convent. As Archbishop Goold was absent in Rome, the ceremony of Opening and Blessing the chapel was performed by the Rev Dean Fitzpatrick on May 24th 1874.
The Chapel is a beautiful example of a 19th century Gothic revival architecture. Built between 1872-1874, it involved a number of architects in it's design. The original drawings were undertaken by John Bourke of Dublin. Major alterations of these drawings were made by William Wardell and sent back to the Mother House in Dublin, by Mother Xavier. Other changes to the plans were made by Mr T. A. Kelly, of Melbourne who was contracted to build the chapel. No evidence is available as to why the redesigning took place. The stonemasons who originally built the chapel were brought out from Ireland. The side chapel was added in 1877, the architect being Alexander Davidson.
In 1905 under the guidance of Mother Evangelist Doogan, the sanctuary is beautified and a gothic altar is commissioned by Reid, Smart and Tappin and made by Jaan Kannuluik an Estonian craftsman. After Vatican II, the altar was brought forward so that the priest performing mass could now face the congregation. Sometime after that in 1966 a decision was made to remove the central supporting pillar that divided the main chapel from the boarders' side chapel as the Sisters felt that the pillar obscured the girls' view.
Forty five years later, in 2010 the Chapel was suffering from extensive cracking in the sanctuary walls, which was always thought to have been caused by drought. When a gang of cockatoos moved into the slate roof and started to destroy it, structural engineers were called in and it was found that the structure had been put at risk by the pillar's removal. For two years the chapel was closed while the pillar was reinstated, the slate roof replaced and the interior, including the highly decorative paint work was completely restored.
The 128 year old George Fincham organ, has recently had a facelift, with the pipe facade being painted and gilded in a beautiful gothic design by Mulholland Restoration and decorating.
The organ was presented to Mother Regis Manly, the director of music in the chapel, by Mother Mary Gabriel Sherlock in 1886. Fincham’s two-manual and pedal organ has a french console disposition with the player’s back to the pipe facade, which is set in gothic wood panelling. The whole instrument is set in a west-end gallery with a projecting balustrade for the console.
The organ was refurbished for it’s 100th birthday by George Fincham and Sons, descendants of the original George Fincham, who have maintained the organ since it’s installation and continue its care.

I found an IR asking for this previously and it says it was implemented on June 18th. But the only thing I can figure out is that I can resize the flat view to take up roughly 3/4 the area of the main window. I would really like to be able to actually have the view windows swap when working in the flat pattern as it takes up more screen real estate when it is unfolded than it does when it is folded. Maybe I'm weird but I don't work on my model with the flat pattern window expanded except when I'm converting a solid and making sure I'm selecting the right edges to bend.
I will pull you onto our internal tracking for this.

Everyone has their own secret destinations to enjoy their emotional feelings whether it may be adults or children or even old peoples. Taking rest with a peaceful mind is a blessing.
Some will get that and some will not,because of the mystery of life. each and everyone wants a bed space in their life. All creatures in the universe rest. Family is one of the happiest and most wonderful place for work and rest.
Family will have a shelter and most happiest moments in life. Bedrooms are the most secure and safe place according to the family atmosphere. let it be children or adults.
Every one will have an idea of how should be their happy sleepy comfort zone with Doc mcstuffins bedroom set! Adults and grown ups create a romantic mood while old ones create a holy dwelling place but apart from these two children create or they want a happy sleepy zone.
It provides calm and peaceful atmosphere and healthy surroundings to children and their by to their parents.In order to raise children happily and thereby their happy parents Doc McStuffins Bedroom sets and other bed room sets will help the children to be happy, creative and energetic.
Kids can also literally immerse themselves and they will grow intelligently.
The adorable collections of Doc mcstuffins bedroom sets generates fun and learning among children and create an jolly atmosphere in the family. Let the kids enjoy with the charm and lovely affection of McStuffins bed. Happy Twinkle Sleep!
Bedroom tv stand dresser – enjoy the added advantage!
Icarly bedroom – 12 ways to make your children happy!

Solo: A Star Wars Story comes out soon! It’s the story of the young smuggler Han Solo (Alden Ehrenreich doing his best Harrison Ford) hanging out with Lando Calrissian (Donald Glover) and getting into scrapes. To celebrate, whip up this cheeseball in the shape of the classic Star Wars stormtrooper! Just don’t try to smuggle it into the theater.
Click here for a printable template you can use to make the decorations. Get the full recipe by clicking the YouTube link, and be sure to subscribe to our YouTube channel for more great recipes and videos. For more Star Wars goodies, try these Wookiee cookies!

Drawing on a unique partnership of private enterprises and public entities, we’re able to give you hands-on guidance in setting up your business abroad. Want to know the cultural etiquette when entering a business meeting? Need to navigate a complex set of rules and regulations in a country very different from your own? We’re here to help!
When becoming a resident at Innovation House China-Denmark, you get so much more than just an office space. You get co-workers from both China and Denmark, all of whom are embarking on a journey similar to yours.
When you’re setting up a business far from home, that kind of kinship can be invaluable. And if you’re looking for a business partner in your new market, we’re happy to serve as matchmakers.
We offer Private Offices, Open Offices, and On-The-Fly workspaces.
Choose the solution that’s right for your business. You’re free to mix and match any way you please. All workspaces come equipped with ergonomic sit-stand desks, access to printers and high-speed internet as well as conference rooms and a kitchenette.
Please note: To ensure maximum flexibility, On-The-Fly workspaces may be used 2-3 times a week. All other workspaces are accessible 24/7.

Plasmatic Biomatter Blast Rifles are ranged ground weapons. They fire a powerful bolt that inflicts energy damage at a single target. They have a secondary firing mode that is guaranteed to burst outward upon impact with the enemy, dealing instant plasma damage to all nearby foes and knocking them back.
Plasmatic Biomatter ground weapons deal Plasma Damage and have a chance to explode on impact, applying a damage-over-time and slow effect to all foes near the targeted enemy.
A Plasmatic Biomatter Blast Rifle can be obtained from the [Special Equipment Pack - Plasmatic Biomatter Weapons] which is obtained by chance from opening the [Xindi-Terrestrial Lock Box].
Rare Plasmatic Biomatter Blast Rifles have two modifier suffixes, Very Rare will have three, and Ultra Rare will have four. Epic adds a fifth unique modifier.
Biorifle at Memory Alpha, the Star Trek Wiki.
Last modified: 23 April 2016 at 11:57.

Medium Hairstyles For Shoulder Length Hairstyles Thick Hair Round Face Wavy Hair would be very suitable if you can notice some like face shape and hair thickness. The idea of this hairstyle has been recommended by admin on July 2, 2014. You can make your hair like in the example image above Hairstyle. You can save the image of the hair style by right clicking your mouse right on the image and select save as an image that is stored in your desktop. Moreover admin also has other recommendations Hairstyle on this website, please see the related post below.

Georgetown — Sally Long, a long-time resident of the Georgetown area, died Wednesday the 18th of June at Sun Bridge Healthcare Center.
Born in 1928 in Madison, S.D., Sally received a Bachelor of Science in Nursing Education from South Dakota State College in 1951. She continued her education at the University of Minnesota, from which she received her M.Ed. in Nursing in 1955.
Sally taught Nursing at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst in the mid-1960s and worked at various psychiatric nursing facilities throughout western Massachusetts in the 1970s. In a career shift, she took a position as a librarian assistant at Franklin County Technical School, Turners Falls, where she worked until her retirement.
Sally loved good food and socializing, enjoyed going to movies and plays with friends, and had a wonderful smile that could light up a room.
She is survived by her niece, Tabitha Winslow and several grandnieces, all of whom live in southern California, and brought great joy to her later years.
Memorial gifts may be made to the Dakin Pioneer Valley Humane Society, PO Box 319, South Deerfield, MA 01373.
The Douglass Funeral Service, Amherst, has been entrusted with arrangements.

Anyone who's ever seen Disney's 1991 animated classic "Beauty and the Beast" or watched the musical on stage knows that no one sings like Gaston. The only question is which Gaston sings best?
Two contenders — Hugh Jackman, who played the baddie back in the original Australian production of the musical in 1995, and Luke Evans, who's taking on the role in the upcoming live-action film — have raised their massive mugs of beer and put their vocals to test.
British talk show host Jonathan Ross set up the challenge to find out which man best brought the brawny narcissist to life. The winner? Everyone who witnessed it.
As for Evans, see more of his Gaston — alongside Emma Watson as Belle, Dan Stevens as the Beast and the rest of the star-studded cast — when "Beauty and the Beast" hits theaters in 2017.

Tap into the growing South Indian market by creating joint ventures, partnerships/associations, sourcing, dealerships, and networks. Get a roadmap to success for the security industry in this region. Generate quality enquiries that provide your organization with unparalleled opportunities. Gain an effective launch pad and base to test market new products in this market. Establish relationships with key decision makers and give them the opportunity to experience the latest innovations you have to offer.

Bridging science and policy decision-making.
Toyin Ajayi, MD, MPhil, is Chief Health Officer at Cityblock Health, a New York–based health and social services company focused on providing integrated health and social care for low-income urban populations with complex health and social needs.
Prior to this, Dr. Ajayi served as Chief Medical Officer at Commonwealth Care Alliance (CCA), a Massachusetts nonprofit health plan and integrated care delivery system created to provide high-quality care to people with complex health needs. In this role, she directed clinical programs and oversaw clinical care delivery, care management, and clinical operations.
Dr. Ajayi is a board-certified family physician and maintains an active clinical practice. Prior to joining CCA in 2013, Dr. Ajayi was an attending physician at Boston Medical Center’s Department of Family Medicine, where she was awarded the Department’s Faculty Teaching Award in 2013, and a clinical instructor at Boston University’s School of Public Health.
Dr. Ajayi received her undergraduate degree from Stanford University; an MPhil from the University of Cambridge; and her medical degree, with Distinction in Clinical Practice, from King’s College London School of Medicine.

Beginning Python: From Novice to Professional is the most comprehensive book on the Python ever written. Based on Practical Python, this newly-revised book is both an introduction and practical reference for a swath of Python-related programming topics, including addressing language internals, database integration, network programming, and web services. Advanced topics, such as extending Python and packaging/distributing Python applications, are also covered.
Ten different projects illustrate the concepts introduced in the book. You will learn how to create a P2P file-sharing application and a web-based bulletin board, and how to remotely edit web-based documents and create games. Author Magnus Lie Hetland is an authority on Python and previously authored Practical Python. He also authored the popular online guide, Instant Python Hacking, on which both books are based.

Last night I was feeling down and confused with all the things that are not happening in my life the way I want them to happen. I saw a couple of Youtube video's about How to Get Motivated, How to Think Clearly etc. etc. but nothing changed.
I wanted to gulp down a few shots to ignore what's been troubling me but then I realized that I am much more stronger than what I am going through in my life right now. We as healers, keep on saying that 'It's all in the mind, your mind creates your reality etc etc." but what I realized that I wasn't really following what I say to others.
A small moment of guilt and shame came over me but then the blessing which I have is the level of awareness, I was able to quickly analyze in those few moments, How my mind tried to create an even negative situation simply because I had let it rule my life. Cmon, I want to make a difference in the whole world and the difference will have to begin from Changing my thinking and thoughts about myself.
I am sure we all go through these dark phases in our lives and feel like its the end of it.
BUT, BUT, BUT If you hang on to these so called Dark phases of your life and Introspect a little, you will know the deeper meaning of Why they came up at the First place?
"If we have to Change the World, We have to First Change Our World"
I somehow Intuitively was guided to Write these few questions on my white board and then When I read them later, I felt that these are the Answers to Help me move past the dark phase into the Light. After all, Light means Guidance, Wisdom, Illumination.
Am I working on my Vision & Goals of Life?
Am I taking the necessary actions to convert my Vision into Reality?
What is my contribution today for My Life's Purpose?
How Am I making the impact to improve the world?
Am I living just for my own self or I feel its my responsibility to improve the world and give my contribution to make it a better place for my generations to come?
What can I do Today to really help and empower others with my current abilities and knowledge?
If its less than 10, How Can I Improve it to be a perfect 10/10? In what better ways Can I be of Help & Assistance to others?
These 11 questions pulled me from going into a rut of negative thoughts and some very inspiring answers began coming from my heart, as if my mind & heart are working in sync to improvise my vision and empowering me to take ACTION.
Try it and Do leave a feedback if these questions helped you out. I am looking forward to hear the results and your kind comments.

Irish crime thriller at its best, Stuart Neville is a fantastic writer. Careful, this will grab you and not let go. The Ghosts of Belfast is the first in the Jack Lennon series but this is one of those series that is loosley connected so reading out of order is not a problem.
Highly recommend any of his books!
Fegan has been a "hard man," an IRA killer in northern Ireland. Now that peace has come, he is being haunted day and night by twelve ghosts: a mother and infant, a schoolboy, a butcher, an RUC constable, and seven other of his innocent victims. In order to appease them, he's going to have to kill the men who gave him orders.
"Perfect for summer—especially if you want to be reminded of what a blessing it is to live in relatively peaceful times."
"Stuart Neville is Ireland's answer to Henning Mankell."

On the island of Lesvos, just 3.5 kilometers east of Molyvos, you’ll find the natural hot springs of Eftalou, a healing destination for millennia. Here, therapeutic springs bubble from under the sea to be captured in an ancient communal bathhouse as well as private pools.
These could be the hottest hot springs in Europe at a nearly scalding 45ºC (113ºF) which means you won’t be soaking for hours but will be alternating between cool sea dips and dips in the hot pot. The springs are rich in minerals and highly radioactive which apparently is part of their curative power. I’m not sure how all that radioactivity is healthy, but hey, I’m no Marie Curie, what do I know? People have flocked to these springs, believing them to be a powerful cure, for centuries.
The hot springs are only open in the warmer months. If you’ve read about hours or opening dates elsewhere, do yourself a favor and call first. I know the opening times are variable. Call ahead if you plan to visit. +30-22530-71245.
Surprisingly, it’s not the curative hot springs that draw me to Eftalou.
It’s the strange, beautiful geology; a colorful, exuberant riot of rock colors and shapes. It’s like nothing I’ve ever seen before.
Walking along the shore, east of the hot springs, you’ll find nearly desolate “Golden Beach” with a single (excellent) taverna to quench your thirst and fill your belly. Rockhounds will find specimens in a rainbow of colors and plentiful quartz.
Cliffs and boulders are swirly, stripy artworks. Streaks of blacks, pinks, greens, and golds infuse the rocky landscape like an abstract painting. Standing solitary on Golden Beach, admiring the Aegean Sea, with warm wind playing over the bizarre terrain, I feel such a strange energy; it feels like a place where one can conjure up magic.
Take the walk yourself, and you’ll see that Mother Nature already has.

Ionic place the best people in the world of construction into the best permanent, temporary and contract jobs within New Build, Social Housing and Maintenance.
Ionic Trades specialise in the delivery of trades recruitment services to a range of organisations within the Construction, Social Housing and Maintenance sectors.
We’ll match you to the right permanent, temporary or contract roles, with a face-to-face service from a dedicated consultant.
Enjoy a proactive service built around you: high quality, best fit candidates and experienced, specialist consultants.
Join our rapidly growing business and enjoy great earning potential with unlimited career progression.

Now you can "Buy Them All"!
** Seeing all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the 5 permanently inhabited U.S. territories has been completed within a year's time by numerous travelers, but for most of us, it will be a lifetime endeavor. This set is only recommended for those travelers that anticipate achieving this goal within 5 years of purchase. The adhesive (stickiness) of an unused Travel Stamp can start to break down after 5 years. This situation only applies to Travel Stamps that haven't been used yet. Once you've used a Travel Stamp by applying it into your book, it will stick permanently.

Key Features Material- CottonHalf Sleeve Warranty 3 Days Replacement Policy 100..
Free Home Delivery! Key Features Material- Cotton; GSM-160Half Sleeve Warranty 3 Da..
Free Home Delivery! Key Features Material- Cotton; GSM-200Half Sleeve Warranty 3 Da..
Free Home Delivery! Key Features জার্সি কাপড়ের থাই কোয়ালিটির, আর্জেন্টিনা জার্সির সামনে বামে ..
Free Home Delivery! Key Features জার্সি কাপড়ের থাই কোয়ালিটির, ব্রাজিল জার্সির সামনে বামে থাকছ..
Free Home Delivery! Key Features Material- SyntheticHalf Sleeve Warranty 3 Days Rep..
Free Home Delivery! Key Features Material- Synthetic Full Sleeve Warranty ..
Free Home Delivery! Key Features Material- SyntheticFull Sleeve Warranty 3 Days Rep..
Key Features Material- Cotton; GSM-160 Half Sleeve Warranty 3 Days Replacement ..

I am a visual person. I like pictures and paintings and statues and icons. In fact, I’d much rather have a nice picture to look at than a page of words. Oh don’t get me wrong, I love books with a passion but when it comes to Lent books I do like a picture to get my teeth in to. Last year I took a three month sabbatical from parish work to wander round art galleries near and far to choose forty paintings which spoke to me of Lent. Some of them are old friends, paintings I go back to time and time again, and some are new discoveries which took my breath away. After I had chosen the pictures I spent some time sleeping in a library in Wales writing short meditations to go with them. You may not need the words. You may simply want to gaze upon the painting and think your own thoughts. And that’s fine. But you may find the meditations lead you down a certain path which helps your Lenten devotions.
I am not an art expert by any means. These forty paintings are perhaps not the greatest works of art on the themes I have chosen, but they were the ones which spoke to me last year. Next year I might chose something completely different. Please do comment on the art or the text and we can travel through this Lent together. Each day in Lent I shall post a new image and meditation so add this Lenten blog to your favourites and come back every day to pray and wonder.
I shall be following your images of Lent. Images are so powerful and often say more than words can.

I recently went on a trip with my youngest daughter to Atlanta, Georgia. I had not been to Georgia before. I used to live in Alabama and Florida (at different times), so I figured it would be mostly the same. What I didn't know was that Atlanta is Gotham City. You may not have known this, and I'm sorry if I'm ruining some fantasy-other-wordliness aspect of Gotham City, but....it's in Georgia.
Our adventure began when we got the rental car and headed out in the safe hands of GPS (aka evil maniacal devil guide) to our hotel. I don't know when I decided Siri was a reliable source again. She has burned me way too many times in the past for me to have any sane reason to trust her, but here I was, across the country in the middle of a rainy night, trusting my life to the voice in my phone with a desire to kill me.
How do I know she wants to kill me? Let's recap. I have gotten lost more times than not when using her. Usually it is because she decides to tell me to take U turns in the middle of freeways or busy roads. Other times it is because she leads me to my destination which actually turns out to be a lonely spot in the middle of nowhere, perfect for murder. This time, it was to the back side of a prison. Yes, just pull into the guarded driveway...don't mind the guns..."your destination is on the right"....sure it is. I didn't fall for it.
I had a feeling that no matter what Siri said, I should probably head towards the taller, better lighted buildings in the distance. By some miracle, we ended up at our hotel. I prefer to believe it was devine guidance. On the way, we discovered we were in Gotham. It wasn't hard to tell, all we had to do was look up. The buildings were somewhat shrouded in fog. Did I mention it was raining? Constantly? The entire weekend? The fog swirled around the tops of the buildings. One building in particular had lights shining off the top, cutting through the fog, just waiting for the Bat signal to be blasted into the sky. It was Gotham. I'm sure of it. If that wasn't enough proof, the sirens that screamed all night were the clincher. I didn't actually SEE Batman, but I'm pretty sure I saw something dark and caped streak past my 9th floor hotel window in the middle of the night.
The rest of our trip went fairly well. We went to a Art walk/block party, very much NOT like the art walks here in Arizona. I expected to see cool art that made my mind scream, "How did they think of that!?" like what happens at the art walks here. Instead, what my mind was screaming was more of a, "WHY did they think of that? What is wrong with them!?" My daughter assured me it was all about the experience, not the product. That had to be the only resoning behind the live music in the "Mammal Bar" which turned out to be a very warm, over crowded room (bar), with a group of adult size toddlers playing on xylophones, recorders, and bongos....with no apparent melody in common. My brain hurt and I wanted to curl up with something familiar, like a cactus. It was painful.
All in all, I totally enjoyed my trip with my daughter. She is an awesome person. I'd want to be her friend if we weren't related. She's totally cool. She is also blessed/cursed with the same talent as I have. We both see celebrity faces in random people. On this trip we saw young DiCaprio, Ice T's uncle, A white Bruno Mars, and the perfect blend of Bradley Cooper and Will Arnett. I admit to following the latter around with my eyes for quite a while and even snapping a picture. Is that weird? It's not like I'm going to stalk him or google his picture online and find out his name and whether or not that girl with him was his girlfriend or send him bunnies or anything, it was purely for research.
Have never asked Siri anything but have of course used a GPS well Tim has I have never even tried to punch in an address in one. They are great except when they get you lost or send you down a one way street the wrong way and that has happened a few time to me and Tim.

Shania Twain expected to break the charts with new album NOW!
Even after a 15-year hiatus, she’s still the one! Shania Twain is on pace to top the charts with her new album NOW. The 16-song LP was released on Sept. 29 and is set to shoot past Demi Lovato and Miley Cyrus to claim the number one spot on Billboard’s Top 200. The Timmins native hopped on Twitter on Wednesday to announce that her album is already platinum in Canada!
Shortly after the release of the lead single “Life’s About to Get Good,” it hit number one on the Billboard 200. Of course, fans were simply dying to see how their favourite country icon was doing, so the new single rocked its way to the top of Billboard + Twitter Trending 140, too! So far, the song’s video has over four million views on YouTube and the number continues to ride the wave of Now’s release.
The 52-year-old country star, still clad in her iconic leopard print, insists that Now is not a break up album but another coming-of-age collection of tunes bound to make listeners laugh, cry and rock out.
This is one country powerhouse that just doesn’t quit. Despite originally declaring her 2015 Rock This Country tour as her final encore, Shania is ready to hit the road again. “I look forward to everyone getting familiar with the album – and then getting out there and performing live!” she exclaimed to Hello!.
The Shania Now tour kicks off on May 3 in Tacoma, Washington, and will see the singer make stops in Vancouver, Toronto, Montreal, Edmonton, Winnipeg, Saskatoon, Hamilton, Ottawa, London and Quebec City. Tickets to see the Canadian musician are on sale now.

This was Reinsdorf's reply on Friday when asked whether the preseason announcement that Phil Jackson will not return as coach of the Bulls next season is, as the French saying goes, a fact accomplished.
And the notation on the desk of Reinsdorf, the owner of the Chicago Bulls, also indicates his position regarding Michael Jordan's often-stated contention that he will play for no other coach than Jackson, and he will play for no other team than the Bulls, which would mean no Jordan filling up the nets next season.
The Bulls make their final regular-season appearance at Madison Square Garden this afternoon against the Knicks, and it seems inconceivable that Jordan will not return for yet another year, and that neither Jackson nor Scottie Pippen will be with the Bulls, either.
Jordan, still the world's greatest hoopster, is leading the National Basketball Association in scoring for the 10th time in his 14 seasons. Even at age 35, he is playing as good an all-round game as ever. Fans, players and team executives know this, so it can hardly be lost on Jordan himself.
It is also obvious that His Airness -- a little less airy these days and a little more earthy but ever sovereign -- is having a grand time at his occupation, and satisfying that remarkable lust for competition and success that has made him an indomitable basketball player.
Jordan has changed his mind before, remember. He quit basketball to play baseball and quit baseball to play basketball.
But hadn't decisions already been made? As recently as early February, Jerry Krause, the Bulls' general manager, reiterated that Jackson would not return next season, after having led the Bulls to five championships and, if the best-laid plans of Krause and his men do not go awry, to a sixth come June.
The personality, or perhaps ego, clash between Jackson and Krause is no secret. While he hired Jackson, Krause also believes that after a certain time, a general manager and a coach may tire of each other, as, has been said, Jerry West and Pat Riley did with the Lakers, thereby compelling a change.
In fact, personality clashes between Krause and some of his players, including Pippen and Jordan, and assistant coaches over the years have been no secret. It seems, however, that Krause has had no such conflict with the owner of the team. But it also seems clear that Reinsdorf has sought for Krause and staff to zipper their lips in regard to what may transpire at season's end.
Still, Reinsdorf's respect for Krause as a basketball operative is lofty, and for good reason. Krause became general manager in 1985, the year after Jordan was drafted. Six seasons later, the Bulls won the first of their championships.
''Everyone on the first championship team except Jordan was acquired by Krause,'' Reinsdorf said. That included Pippen, astutely attained in a trade for his draft rights and now seemingly headed elsewhere next season as a free agent, although who knows for sure.
Pippen, who will be 33 in September, doesn't talk to Krause, but he does talk to Reinsdorf. And while Pippen is said to be seeking a huge five-year contract, Reinsdorf said he had yet to hear anything like that from Pippen, who has been bitter about what the Bulls have been paying him but has also been making plenty of money with endorsements.
Krause took a chance on Dennis Rodman. He found a place for Steve Kerr. He traded a nonentity, Stacey King, for center Luc Longley. He traveled for years to Europe to court Toni Kukoc, and finally snared him. He saw the possibilities in Ron Harper's career being revived.
Yes, Krause has had Jordan all this time, but Jordan found that he couldn't do it alone. He didn't win his first championship until his seventh season in the league -- with a requisite ''supporting cast,'' as Jordan termed it.
Krause has surely made mistakes, too, such as some draft picks.
Krause, meanwhile, sometimes says things without a veneer of suavity. He can rankle in his bluntness, or, sometimes, in his evasiveness. And possibly he is frustrated in not receiving much of the due he believes he deserves.
When he received his championship ring for last season along with the rest of the team at the season opener at the United Center, the boos for him were evident. It was odd, since if he had been the general manager of five championships in, say, New York, he could be Mayor of this town -- and on a write-in ballot.
So at what point do you make a decision to break up the team?
Looking at their history, it is manifest that as a twosome neither Krause nor Reinsdorf is so stupid or driven by ego that he will perpetrate the sublimely imbecilic.
The view here is that Jordan will definitely be playing next season with the Bulls, with or without Jackson. But the odds of Jackson returning appear healthy, as well, especially if the Bulls win another title.
If there is one exception to ''Nothing is written in stone,'' it is this: It's a bottom-line game.

Creating Leaders - NFI North, Inc.
Each year we offer professional development opportunities highlighting those that want to lean and expand their leadership capabilities. Earlier this year fifteen individuals participated in a six-month Leadership Training program offered by our Executive Director, Paul Dann, Ph.D. The program helps participants to fulfill their potential through effective leadership skills training in areas like team building, decision making, qualities of good leadership and more. Our Leadership Series includes six sessions which begin with what is essentially a life long journey of exploring, understanding and refining our capacity to serve as leaders within the organization as well as the larger community. As a part of this we ask that everyone come to every session with an open mind and a willingness to learn from a personal as well as a professional standpoint. In addition to our six monthly seminars, the leadership curriculum calls for our attendees to engage in some reading as well as some activities in between sessions.
This year’s participants included: Jessica Clark, Kaitlyn Dutton, Judy Field, Lori Fortin, Bonnie Laughlin, Fran Lesnick, Amy Manchester, Devin McDonald, Molly McLean, Tom Mirando, Danielle Noyes, Randy Smith, Jean Tewksbury, Randy Whitman, and Allen Wilbur.
Congratulations to each of you for taking on this incredible commitment and investing in your future. BRAVO!

Wednesday, December 19, 2018 — Anaheim, California, December 20, 2018 – Premium German interface manufacturer RME is pulling out all the stops at this year’s NAMM Show, hosting appearances at its booth 14702 every hour by a range of top audio professionals and musicians who are shaping the future of their respective disciplines. Appearances will include film composer Adam Barber, Andy Grammer’s FOH team, metal guitarist Michael Batio, legendary soul artist Ellis Hall, Icelandic drumming sensation Gulli Briem, Brazilian guitarist Lari Basilio and legendary bassist Chuck Rainey with veteran drummer John Martinez.
During their sessions, each artist will guide listeners on how they use RME equipment in their day-to-day musical process. The artist will present on RME’s new in-booth stage which features a 6 x 5 panel LCD television wall. Designed to not only to entertain, these educational sessions are intended to help instruct attendees on how to get the most out of their RME gear.
A film composer for major motion pictures, including the 2014 horror film Last Shift and 2018’s London Fields, Adam Barber will explain how he uses RME’s TotalMix software in his score work Thursday, Friday and Saturday of the show at 10:30 a.m. Heavy metal guitarist Michael Batio will perform each day of the show at 11:30 a.m. while also explaining how using the Babyface Pro has helped him build tracks with low latency on albums in his personal recording studio.
At 12:30 p.m. every day of the show, Icelandic drummer Gulli Briem will perform through an Yamaha electronic kit while sharing how he uses Octamic XTC and TotalMix FX in the studio. The ‘Ambassador of Soul’ himself Ellis Hall will perform alongside a Babyface Pro at 1:30 p.m. Thursday–Saturday, while Andy’s Grammer’s FOH team will share how they have incorporated RME gear into their playback rig at 2:30 p.m. on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Brazilian guitarist Lari Basilio will perform on Thursday–Saturday and share how RME equipment has played a major role in her recording and performing. Finally, legendary bassist Chuck Rainey and bass educator John Martinez of The Rhythm Intensive will play the booth on Sunday at 10:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m.
Also, at 4:30 p.m. each day of the show, RME will be giving away a Babyface Pro For your chance to win, visit booth 14702.

chemical compound, H2SO4, colorless, odorless, extremely corrosive, oily liquid. It is sometimes called oil of vitriol.
, electrical conductor in which current is carried by ions rather than by free electrons (as in a metal). Electrolytes include water solutions of acids, bases, or salts; certain pure liquids; and molten salts.
..... Click the link for more information. because relatively little of it is dissociated into ions at room temperature. When cold it does not react readily with such common metals as iron or copper. When hot it is an oxidizing agent, the sulfur in it being reduced; sulfur dioxide gas may be released. Hot concentrated sulfuric acid reacts with most metals and with several nonmetals, e.g., sulfur and carbon. Because the concentrated acid has a fairly high boiling point, it can be used to release more volatile acids from their salts, e.g., when sodium chloride (NaCl), or common salt, is heated with concentrated sulfuric acid, hydrogen chloride gas, HCl, is evolved.
Concentrated sulfuric acid has a very strong affinity for water. It is sometimes used as a drying agent and can be used to dehydrate (chemically remove water from) many compounds, e.g., carbohydrates. It reacts with the sugar sucrose, C12H22O11, removing eleven molecules of water, H2O, from each molecule of sucrose and leaving a brittle spongy black mass of carbon and diluted sulfuric acid. The acid reacts similarly with skin, cellulose, and other plant and animal matter.
When the concentrated acid mixes with water, large amounts of heat are released; enough heat can be released at once to boil the water and spatter the acid. To dilute the acid, the acid should be added slowly to cold water with constant stirring to limit the buildup of heat. Sulfuric acid reacts with water to form hydrates with distinct properties.
A neutral atom or group of atoms becomes an ion by gaining or losing one or more electrons or protons.
chemical compound containing the sulfate (SO4) radical. Sulfates are salts or esters of sulfuric acid, H2SO4, formed by replacing one or both of the hydrogens with a metal (e.g., sodium) or a radical (e.g., ammonium or ethyl).
..... Click the link for more information. of the metal. It reacts with most hydroxides and oxides, with some carbonates and sulfides, and with some salts. Since it is dibasic (i.e., it has two replaceable hydrogen atoms in each molecule), it forms both normal sulfates (with both hydrogens replaced, e.g., sodium sulfate, Na2SO4) and acid sulfates, also called bisulfates or hydrogen sulfates (with only one hydrogen replaced, e.g., sodium bisulfate, NaHSO4).
chemical compound, SO2, a colorless gas with a pungent, suffocating odor. It is readily soluble in cold water, sparingly soluble in hot water, and soluble in alcohol, acetic acid, and sulfuric acid.
..... Click the link for more information. is oxidized and dissolved in water. The sulfur dioxide is obtained by burning sulfur, by burning pyrites (iron sulfides), by roasting nonferrous sulfide ores preparatory to smelting, or by burning hydrogen sulfide gas. Some sulfuric acid is also made from ferrous sulfate waste solutions from pickling iron and steel and from waste acid sludge from oil refineries.
In the lead chamber process hot sulfur dioxide gas enters the bottom of a reactor called a Glover tower where it is washed with nitrous vitriol (sulfuric acid with nitric oxide, NO, and nitrogen dioxide, NO2, dissolved in it) and mixed with nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide gases; some of the sulfur dioxide is oxidized to sulfur trioxide and dissolved in the acid wash to form tower acid or Glover acid (about 78% H2SO4). From the Glover tower a mixture of gases (including sulfur dioxide and trioxide, nitrogen oxides, nitrogen, oxygen, and steam) is transferred to a lead-lined chamber where it is reacted with more water. The chamber may be a large, boxlike room or an enclosure in the form of a truncated cone. Sulfuric acid is formed by a complex series of reactions; it condenses on the walls and collects on the floor of the chamber. There may be from three to twelve chambers in a series; the gases pass through each in succession. The acid produced in the chambers, often called chamber acid or fertilizer acid, contains 62% to 68% H2SO4. After the gases have passed through the chambers they are passed into a reactor called the Gay-Lussac tower where they are washed with cooled concentrated acid (from the Glover tower); the nitrogen oxides and unreacted sulfur dioxide dissolve in the acid to form the nitrous vitriol used in the Glover tower. Remaining waste gases are usually discharged into the atmosphere.
In the contact process, purified sulfur dioxide and air are mixed, heated to about 450°C;, and passed over a catalyst; the sulfur dioxide is oxidized to sulfur trioxide. The catalyst is usually platinum on a silica or asbestos carrier or vanadium pentoxide on a silica carrier. The sulfur trioxide is cooled and passed through two towers. In the first tower it is washed with oleum (fuming sulfuric acid, 100% sulfuric acid with sulfur trioxide dissolved in it). In the second tower it is washed with 97% sulfuric acid; 98% sulfuric acid is usually produced in this tower. Waste gases are usually discharged into the atmosphere. Acid of any desired concentration may be produced by mixing or diluting the products of this process.
Sulfuric acid is one of the most important industrial chemicals. More of it is made each year than is made of any other manufactured chemical; more than 40 million tons of it were produced in the United States in 1990. It has widely varied uses and plays some part in the production of nearly all manufactured goods. The major use of sulfuric acid is in the production of fertilizers, e.g., superphosphate of lime and ammonium sulfate. It is widely used in the manufacture of chemicals, e.g., in making hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, sulfate salts, synthetic detergents, dyes and pigments, explosives, and drugs. It is used in petroleum refining to wash impurities out of gasoline and other refinery products. Sulfuric acid is used in processing metals, e.g., in pickling (cleaning) iron and steel before plating them with tin or zinc. Rayon is made with sulfuric acid. It serves as the electrolyte in the lead-acid storage battery commonly used in motor vehicles (acid for this use, containing about 33% H2SO4 and with specific gravity about 1.25, is often called battery acid).
Although sulfuric acid is now one of the most widely used chemicals, it was probably little known before the 16th cent. It was prepared by Johann Van Helmont (c.1600) by destructive distillation of green vitriol (ferrous sulfate) and by burning sulfur. The first major industrial demand for sulfuric acid was the Leblanc process for making sodium carbonate (developed c.1790). Sulfuric acid was produced at Nordhausen from green vitriol but was expensive. A process for its synthesis by burning sulfur with saltpeter (potassium nitrate) was first used by Johann Glauber in the 17th cent. and developed commercially by Joshua Ward in England c.1740. It was soon superseded by the lead chamber process, invented by John Roebuck in 1746 and since improved by many others. The contact process was originally developed c.1830 by Peregrine Phillips in England; it was little used until a need for concentrated acid arose, particularly for the manufacture of synthetic organic dyes.
H2 SO4, a strong dibasic acid corresponding to the highest oxidation state of sulfur (+ 6). Under usual conditions, sulfuric acid is a heavy, oily, colorless, and odorless liquid. In industry, mixtures of sulfuric acid both with water and sulfur trioxide are also called sulfuric acid. If the SO3: H2 O molecular ratio is less than 1, the mixture is an aqueous solution of sulfuric acid; if it is more than 1, the mixture is a solution of SO3 in sulfuric acid.
The compounds H2 SO4·SO3 (H2 S2 O7, disulfuric, or pyrosulfuric acid, mp 35.15°C) and H2 SO4·2SO3 (H2 S3 O10, trisulfuric acid, mp 1.20°C) are also formed. Only water vapor is given off into the vapor phase upon heating and boiling aqueous solutions of sulfuric acid containing up to 70 percent H2 S04. Vapors of sulfuric acid are formed above more concentrated solutions. A solution of 98.3 percent H2 SO4 (azeotropic mixture) upon boiling (336.5°C) is completely distilled. Sulfuric acid containing more than 98.3 percent H2 SO4 releases vapors of SO3 upon heating.
Sulfuric acid removes water that is chemically bound to organic compounds containing OH, or hydroxyl, groups. The dehydration of ethyl alcohol in the presence of concentrated sulfuric acid results in the formation of ethylene or diethyl ether. The charring of sugar, cellulose, starch, and other carbohydrates upon contact with sulfuric acid also derives from the dehydration of these substances. As a dibasic acid, sulfuric acid forms two types of salts: sulfates and bisulfates.
Production. The first descriptions of oil of vitriol, that is, concentrated sulfuric acid, were given by the Italian scientist V. Biringuccio in 1540 and the German alchemist whose works were published under the name of Basilius Valentinus in the late 16th and early 17th centuries. By 1690, the French chemists N. Lemery and N. Lefebvre had laid the basis for the first industrial method of obtaining sulfuric acid, a method applied in England in 1740. According to this method, a mixture of sulfur and saltpeter was burned in a ladle suspended in a glass jar containing a certain amount of water. The SO3 generated reacted with the water to form sulfuric acid. In 1746, J. Roebuck in Birmingham replaced the glass jars with chambers made of sheet lead, thus laying the basis for the chamber process for the production of sulfuric acid. Continuous improvement in the process for the production of sulfuric acid in Great Britain and France resulted in 1908 in the first tower system. In the USSR, the first tower installation went into operation in 1926 at the Po-levskoi Metallurgical Plant in the Urals.
The raw material for the production of sulfuric acid can be sulfur, pyrite (FeS2), or exhaust gases containing SO2 from furnaces for the oxidative roasting of the sulfide ores of Cu, Pb, Zn, and other metals. In the USSR, most sulfuric acid is obtained from pyrite. Here, the FeS2 is burned in furnaces in the state of a fluidized bed, a state achieved by blowing a rapid stream of air through a layer of finely ground pyrite. The gaseous mixture obtained contains SO2, O2, N2, impurities of SO3, and vapors of H2 O, As2 O3, and SiO2 and holds considerable cinder dust, which is removed from the gas in electrostatic precipitators.
The NO produced is converted into N2 O3, or, more precisely, a mixture of NO and NO2, in the oxidizing tower. The gases are then introduced into absorption towers, where they encounter sulfuric acid supplied from the top. It is here that nitrous vitriol is obtained; the mixture is then transferred to the production towers. Thus, there is continuous production and a circulation of nitrogen oxides. The inevitable losses of nitrogen oxides with the exhaust gases are balanced by the addition of HNO3.
The sulfuric acid produced by the nitrous method is of insufficient concentration and contains harmful impurities, for example. As. Production is accompanied by the release of nitrogen oxides into the atmosphere (“foxtails,” named for the color of NO2).
Depending on the amount of water introduced into the process, either oleum or a solution of sulfuric acid in water is obtained.
In 1973 the production of sulfuric acid (in the monohydrate) was (in millions of tons): 14.9 in the USSR, 28.7 in the United States, 7.1 in Japan, 5.5 in the Federal Republic of Germany, 4.4 in France, 3.9 in Great Britain, 3.0 in Italy, 2.9 in Poland, 1.2 in Czechoslovakia, 1.1 in the German Democratic Republic, and 0.9 in Yugoslavia.
USE. Sulfuric acid is one of the most important products of the heavy chemical industry. The available grades include chamber acid (not less than 75 percent H2 SO4), oil of vitriol (not less than 92.5 percent), and oleum, or fuming sulfuric acid (a solution of 18.5–20 percent SO3 in H2 SO4), as well as especially pure battery acid (92–94 percent; when diluted by water to 26–31 percent, it serves as the electrolyte in lead batteries). In addition, reagent-grade sulfuric acid (92–94 percent) is produced by the contact process in quartz or platinum apparatus. The strength of sulfuric acid is determined by the density, which is measured with a hydrometer. Most of the chamber acid is used in the production of mineral fertilizers. Sulfuric acid is used in the production of, for example, phosphoric, hydrochloric, boric, and hydrofluoric acids because of its ability to displace these acids from their salts. Concentrated sulfuric acid is used in separating organosulfur compounds and unsaturated organic compounds from petroleum products. Dilute sulfuric acid is used for the removal of scale from wire and sheets before plating with tin or zinc and for the pickling of metal surfaces before plating with chromium, nickel, or copper. It is used in metallurgy for the decomposition of complex ores, in particular, those of uranium. In organic synthesis, concentrated sulfuric acid is a necessary component of nitrating mixtures and a sulfonating agent in the production of many dyes and pharmaceuticals. Owing to its high hygroscopicity, sulfuric acid is used in drying gases and in concentrating nitric acid.
Safety measures. Poisonous gases—SO2 and NO2—as well as vapors of SO3 and H2 SO4, present a danger in the production of sulfuric acid. Proper ventilation and hermetically sealed production apparatus are therefore mandatory. Since sulfuric acid causes serious burns of the skin, handling requires extreme care and protective devices (goggles, rubber gloves, aprons, boots). When diluting sulfuric acid, the acid must be poured into water in a thin stream while stirring. Pouring the water into the acid leads to spattering because of the evolution of a great amount of heat.
Spravochnik sernokislotchika, 2nd ed. Edited by K. M. Malin. Moscow, 1971.
Malin, K. M., N. L. Arkin, G. K. Boreskov, and M. G. Slin’ko. Tekhnologiia sernoi kisloty. Moscow, 1950.
Boreskov, G. K. Kataliz v proizvodstve sernoi kisloty. Moscow-Leningrad, 1954.
Amelin, A. G., and E. V. Iashke. Proizvodstvo sernoi kisloty. Moscow, 1974.
Luk’ianov, P. M. Kratkaia istoriia khimicheskoi promyshlennosti SSSR. Moscow, 1959.
H2SO4 A toxic, corrosive, strongly acid, colorless liquid that is miscible with water and dissolves most metals, and melts at 10°C; used in industry in the manufacture of chemicals, fertilizers, and explosives, and in petroleum refining. Also known as dipping acid; oil of vitriol, vitriolic acid.

Hot Mess to Mindful Mom is a new book written by Ali Katz. It provided me with what I believe every mom is searching for. I have been on a journey to discover who I am as a mom and how to be a present and mindful mom from the day my first daughter was born. At age 48, now a mom of three teenager daughters, I am still on that journey and always searching for ways to simplify and appreciate the time I spend with them. Ali Katz has given me valuable tips and direction that I can use as I continue my journey.
This book focuses on ways for a mom to explore herself and take care of herself in order to find balance and give her best self to her own children. By using certain tips and principles, through meditation, personal experiences and simple acts of kindness to name a few details in the book, Hot Mess to Mindful Mom enabled me to become even more realistic and mindful.
By relating to some of Ali’s experiences I felt engaged with her like I was having a personal conversation with a fellow mom. She is very forthcoming and helpful in showing me new ways to explore something deeper. I truly believe she gave me valuable information and techniques that I can use to strengthen myself as a mom.
I was familiar with many challenges Ali faced on her own journey and she was able to fill me with great advice and help. Ali expresses so openly how she has learned to be grateful and forgiving. This allowed her and will allow other moms to overcome fears and doubts and to become happier, which in turn, helps them become better moms.
As shown in the book, every mom is on a journey from the day the child arrives and never ends. Ali Katz, in her book a Hot Mess to a Mindful Mom, we get to experience her journey and learn, as she did, how to grow deeper in ourselves and become a little bit better each and every day in order to enjoy the simple times with our children and spread our happiness to them.
Hot Mess to Mindful Mom is available at amazon.com.
This guest post is by Kelley Beckham.

We understand that medical emergencies do occur outside of normal business hours and are very stressful for all parties involved. We want to be as supportive as possible but it is physically and mentally impossible to be on call 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Most minor medical emergencies can be managed in a general practice setting but major, life threatening conditions are more likely to have a positive outcome when the patient is cared for in a facility that focuses on emergency care, equipped and staffed with personnel trained and experienced in treating such conditions.
Open 24 hours, including holidays and weekends.

Abstract：In recent years O2O industry shows a rapid development in our country. O2O mode has been accepted by many industries and introduced in the logistics industry. By using the O2O mode effectivelysolve the cargo allocation problems, the high empty loading rate of lorry and the highly logistics costs, etc. in the logistics industry, which isgreatly promote the health and velocity in the logistics industry in our country. But logistics O2O mode in our country still exists many problems in the process of development, such as false information, payment, etc.
This article by studying the operation of logistics O2O mode in our country, and summarizing and analyzing the current situation and existing problems, for putting forward to the effective solutions in the development of China's logistics O2O mode.
Gelly S,Silver D.Combining online and offline knowledge in UCT[C]//Proceedings of the 24th international conference on Machine learning.ACM,2007:273-280.

PPGI Coil Color Coated Steel Coil, Color Coating Steel Coil, PPGI manufacturer / supplier in China, offering Aiyia High Strength 600mm-1500mm Width Prepainted Galvanized Steel Coil PPGI, Print PPGI PPGL Steel Coils Manufacturer Supplier, Prepainted Galvanized Steel Coil Cold Rolled Steel and so on.
Alibaba offers 17,953 prime cold rolled steel coils products. About 75% of these are steel sheets, 10% are stainless steel sheets, and 1% are metal building materials. A wide variety of prime cold rolled steel coils options are available to you, such as aisi, astm.
Gi Sheet Full Hard, Gi Steel Sheet, Gi Galvanized Steel Sheet manufacturer / supplier in China, offering High Zinc Coating Galvanized Steel Plate Width From 600mm-1250mm, 0.2-1.5 Thickness Prepainted Zinc Coated Matel Roofing Sheet, Ral 9016 Z80 Prepainted Galvanized Steel Sheet and so on.
Color Coated Galvanized Steel Coil, Prepainted Galvanized Steel Coil, PPGI manufacturer / supplier in China, offering 0.15mm Zinc 100 Prime PPGI Color Coated Galvanized Steel Coil, Professional Manufacture High Quality PPGI Prepainted Galvanized Steel Coil, SGLCC Az60 Hot Dipped Galvalume/Aluzinc Corrugated Steel Roofing Sheet with Low Price (gl) and so on.
Strip Steel, Q195 Steel Strip, Gl manufacturer / supplier in China, offering Cold Steel Coill / Iron Sheet Rolls / Prime Hot-Dipped Galvanized Steel, ASTM A792 Az150 Passivation Galvalume Steel Coil for Build Construction, Color Coated/Prepainted Galvanized Steel Coil with SGS Standard Test and so on.
China Zinc 20-275g Prime Hot-DIP Galvanized Steel Coil for Home Appliance, Find details about China Zero Spangle Galvanized Coils, Regular Spangle Galvanized Roll from Zinc 20-275g Prime Hot-DIP Galvanized Steel Coil for Home Appliance - Zhengzhou City Unites Steel Industrial Co., Ltd.
Galvanized Steel Coil, Galvanized Coil, Steel Sheet manufacturer / supplier in China, offering Dx51d Prime Hot Dipped Galvanized Steel Coil for Construction, 2018 Best Selling Corrugated Steel Sheet for Roofing, Dx51d Color Coated Galvanized Roofing PPGI Steel Sheet and so on.
Cold Roll Steel Coil, Hot Rolled Steel Coil, Cold Rolled Steel Coil manufacturer / supplier in China, offering Prime and Secondary Cold Roll Steel Coil for Building Materials, Fireproof Metal Floor Slab Deck, Color Steel PU Sandwich Panel for Prefab Houses Building Materials and so on.
Prime Quality Galvanized Steel Coil (hdg), Wholesale Various High Quality Prime Quality Galvanized Steel Coil (hdg) Products from Global Prime Quality Galvanized Steel Coil (hdg) Suppliers and Prime Quality Galvanized Steel Coil (hdg) Factory,Importer,Exporter at Alibaba.
Tianjin Xuboyuan Iron & Steel Trading Co., Ltd. Cold Rolled Steel Strip, Cold Rolled Steel Tape, Cold Rolled Steel Band manufacturer / supplier in China, offering Narrow Cold Rolled Steel Coil, Cable Silicon Core Tube, Hot Rolled Medium Steel Plate and so on.
China Slit 1219mm Width 304 Stainless Steel Coils, Find details about China Steel Coils, Stainless Steel Coil from Slit 1219mm Width 304 Stainless Steel Coils - Wuxi Xin Fu Rui Metal Material Co., Ltd.

So you want a college degree.
In the USA, about the only acceptable answer is “Chaaa, to get a bitchin’ new Camaro, hombre!” If you are a parent and already have a bitchin’ Camaro, you want your children to go to college so they, too, can afford their own bitchin’ Camaros. Education is just that important! More education, more Camaros.
Do you think I’m cynical? Do you think I consider my countrymen to be that crass and — heaven forfend — stupid?
Well, yes I am. And yes, yes I do.
I’ve based my conclusions on a lifetime of observations of what Americans truly value. It isn’t education, really. We don’t care what kind of low-brow, thick-fingered troglodyte dullard you resemble as long as you have good credit and faithfully participate in consumerism. A college education has traditionally been the best path to full citizenship, where you extract the maximum compensation from a corporation in order to pay for dumb stuff that’s supposed to make you happy and obviously better than others.
So really, I support free college for everyone. I’d like college degrees to be so common that they no longer represent any potential income advantage at all. I’d like to see the market flooded with not only liberal-arts majors, but also engineers, doctors, scientists — everything. At that point, we’ll all be living with mom until we’re 40 while working at Starbucks, and this whole spurious correlation of degree with income will be a distant memory. We’ll get to study whatever we want, and to get back to actually valuing education over GM’s answer to the Ford Mustang.
You with me on this? I hope so.
Anyway, when politicians on stage talk about making college more available or even free, some people in their audiences get excited. The people who get excited are people who haven’t yet gone to college, or parents of people who haven’t yet gone. Then, there are those who get resentful. These are the people still making college loan payments.
In the minds of the people who get excited there floats one specific image. It’s not an image of long nights spent inhaling the wisdom buried in books, nor hunched over a laptop writing the one research paper to end all research papers. It’s not an image of long conversations on campus with other seekers, when all come to some new mutual understanding of a truth revealed. It’s not an image of a lifetime spent as an enlightened citizen armed with the knowledge and cognitive tools to make good choices in one’s community and to truly participate in democracy.
No. The image is of a yellow Camaro. With stripes. Just like Bumblebee from Transformers.
So perhaps it’s only just that college not be free after all. It’s not really about education, see. It’s more like a business. Put in your 4-6 years and your $100K-$250K and if you’ve played your cards right, you have income for life. But the only way this can work is if there is some entrance fee. Gotta keep it exclusive in some way. There aren’t enough Camaros to go around.

Applications are invited for a Walk in interview for the following post(s) in the project entitled, "Lateral Flow Immunoassay based Point-of-Care Oral Cancer Diagnostic kit (OCDk)" at the department of Centre for Nanotechnology, IIT Guwahati.
Candidates have to appear in the Walk in Interview along with an application/CV on plain paper giving details of all educational qualifications, experience, contact address, phone no., E - mail etc. and submit photocopies of relevant documents at the time of interview on 24 Apr 2019 (Wednesday) at 11:00 AM. Venue: Conference Room, CFN.

Image Title: Pottery Barn Counter Stools In Decker Leather Seat Barstool Inside Bar Plans 8. Filename: pottery-barn-counter-stools-in-decker-leather-seat-barstool-inside-bar-plans-8.jpg. Image Dimension: 710 x 639 pixels. Images Format: jpg/jpeg. Publisher/Author: Zackary Nikolaus. Uploaded Date: Monday - May 14th. 2018 18:35:16 PM. Category: Architecture. Image Source: interior.com.
Tap The Thumbnail Bellow to See Related Gallery of "Pottery Barn Counter Stools In Decker Leather Seat Barstool Inside Bar Plans 8"

How to unblock ABC Go UK outside US? Watch ABC in the UK on Apple TV, iPhone, iPad, Android, PC or Mac. ABC is geoblocked outside US. In order to bypass geographic restrictions and access ABC in UK, you have to spoof/change your online location. VPN and Smart DNS allows you to watch ABC in the UK.
If you try to watch ABC shows online in the UK, you get the following error message: “You appear to be outside the United States or its territories. Due to International rights agreements, we only offer this video to viewers located within the US.” That basically means you cannot watch any of ABC’s shows in UK due to geo-restrictions. VPN enables you to trick ABC into thinking you are in USA by giving you an American IP address.
VPN allows you to unblock all US channels in the UK. Watch ABC, NBC, CBS, Netflix, Vudu, Hulu, Showtime, or HBO Go.
VPN apps can be installed on Android, iPhone, iPad, PC, or Mac.
Thanks to VPN’s data encryption, your ISP will not be able to see what you are doing online.
Your Internet speed will drop by around 10 to 15% when using VPN.
I am currently using ExpressVPN to unblock WatchABC in the UK. You can use any of the three VPN providers in the table below to watch ABC outside US.
There is an alternative way to watch ABC outside US. Smart DNS also allows you to remove geoblocks and access US channels in the UK. You do not get a new IP address when using Smart DNS. Therefore, you will still appear to be in the UK for all websites apart from the ones you are trying to unblock.
Smart DNS can be setup on Apple TV, Mac, Smart TV, PS3, PS4, Xbox, Amazon Fire TV, Roku, Chromecast, Android, iPhone, iPad, or PC.
No effect on Internet speed with Smart DNS. No traffic encryption either.
You can still use all local UK apps and sites while unblocking US channels with Smart DNS. Your IP address is left unchanged.
No need to install or download software. Smart DNS can be configured directly on your device. All you need is access to your device’s network settings.
Some ISPs uses transparent proxies or DNS hijacking. Either method might prevent Smart DNS from functioning properly.
There are quite a few Smart DNS services available. Not all of them help you to unblock ABC outside US. Unlocator allows you to unblock and watch ABC in the UK. You can check the list of 214 channels they allow you to unblock.
So, you can either use VPN or Smart DNS proxy to unblock and watch ABC in the UK. Keep in mind that you still need a valid American cable subscription in order to sign into ABC. Even if you are outside the US.

I have recorded quite a few CDs. I recommend "Reliable Transportation" - my first cd. Also "The Innocent Bystanders Volumes I & II" and "Ed Dowling and the Moments Live at the Spirit Room" I played with the Innocent Bystanders for 15 years or so. We were a newgrass band with a unique style and sound. We played every Saturday and Sunday afternoon at the Spirit Room in Jerome, Arizona for most of the 1980's. There are some nice original tunes on the 2 CD set which was recorded live at the Spirit Room in 1987. I am trying to provide as many of the tunes as possible for free download and listening. The cds are $10 each plus shipping.
Click on a song title below to listen to that track.
A new small window will appear with the MP4 audio file.

represents EGEA externally and acts as the executive body of the association.
Do you have any feedback for the Board of EGEA? Then click here.
Do you have any feedback for Swen? Then click here.
Do you have any feedback for Valentina? Then click here.
Do you have any feedback for Milan? Then click here.
Do you have any feedback for Frederike? Then click here.
Do you have any feedback for Anna? Then click here.
For more details about the teams and the country responsibilities, check out the information below.
of support for the Board of EGEA and the Regional Teams.
)* until 2012 Annual Congress Organiser, then until 2015 Annual Congress Coordinator.
If you know the names of the officials before 1992, please write to webadmin[at]egea.eu.

An ultra luxurious resort-style compound located in Los Angeles’ Bel Air hood recently landed on the market. For the meager fortune of $24,995,000, you can call this 12,600 square-foot residence home.
Fantastic features include an entrance lobby fitting of a five star hotel, a 6-seat professional theater with 130” screen, a decked out gym, a yoga and pilates studio and a full-service day salon where you can receive a massage, get your hair and makeup done, or pamper yourself with a mani/pedi.
Wine enthusiasts will appreciate the temperature controlled wine preservation room that fits 600 bottles of your favorite vino, and those looking for a lavish soak will ooh and ahh over the tub in the master bathroom worth roughly $60,000. If you wander outside, you’ll find a tree bar, an al fresco kitchen, an outdoor theater, and an infinity pool.
With nine bedrooms and fourteen baths, this compound—located at 1737 Bel Air road—will ensure you never have to leave home again.

Wild garlic pesto shrimp pasta is a fresh and easy pasta dish made with sauteed shrimps, marinated in flavourful wild garlic pesto… Perfect for lunch or dinner!
Lately, I’ve been all about easy and quick lunch and dinner ideas, and this recipe is one of my all-time favourite recipes. This whole thing is ready in just 20 minutes, perfect for busy days or even date nights!
Wild garlic can be found normally from March to June, and since it’s the season of wild garlic I wanted to share this recipe with you. However, if you can’t find wild garlic then you can go for regular basil pesto and the result will also be very delicious!
Wild garlic pesto is very easy to make. You will need wild garlic, grated parmesan cheese, pine nuts, olive oil, lemon juice and salt & pepper. Simply place all ingredients in a food processor and blitz until you get the desired consistency. You can add more olive oil to the mixture if needed.
This luxury shrimp pasta dish is very easy and quick to make. It is ready in just 20 minutes, and you can’t beat that! All you need to do is cook the pasta, marinate (or coat if you don’t have time) the shrimp in pesto, saute the shrimp, make a simple creamy sauce for the pasta, toss everything together, top the pasta with shrimps, and finish with a sprinkle of grated parmesan cheese and freshly chopped parsley!
This creamy wild garlic pesto shrimp pasta is packed with flavour. Perfect for lunch or dinner and can be ready in under 20 minutes!
Place all ingredients in a food processor and blitz until you reach the desired consistency. You can add more olive oil if needed.
Marinate shrimp in wild garlic pesto for 15-20 minutes. Or just coat in pesto if you don't have much time.
Cook pasta according to instructions on the pack. I add a little bit of olive oil and a pinch of salt to boiling water before adding pasta.
While pasta is cooking, cook the shrimps. Heat olive oil in a pan, then add shrimps and cook until shrimps are pink and round.
When pasta is cooked, get rid of pasta water and leave pasta in the pot. Reserve just a little bit of the water. Add heavy cream along with pasta water, and let it bubble. Add ground black pepper and salt to taste.
This shrimp pasta dish is also perfect for date nights, my fiance appreciates a good pasta dish with seafood and this recipe is definitely a favourite. For me, date night at home means cooking a luxury comforting dish and eating it on our cosy sofa with romantic music playing in the background.
I was asked to take part in a creative challenge by Juliettes Interiors to create a lunch menu inspired by my favourite Chaise Longue from their collection. They have a beautiful glamorous collection, and it was so difficult for me to choose my favourite chaise. There are so many styles to choose from! From neoclassical, baroque and roman to modern designs. And different gorgeous materials and finishes, like leather, linen, velvet, and wood. I ended up going with this stunning Curved Contemporary Chaise Longue. This luxurious chaise is very elegant and looks very comfy as well!
This post is sponsored by Juliettes Interiors. Thank you for supporting the brands that make Little Sunny Kitchen happen. All opinions are my own. Chaise Longue image courtesy of Juliettes Interiors.
This looks so light and fresh which pasta does not always do. It looks amazing too!
I absolutely love pasta with wild garlic pesto. I made this recipe for my family yesterday, and it was gone right away.
I’m not familiar with wild garlic but it sounds like something I need to track down! Pinned, in hopes that I do! I love the whole date night menu you proposed too. So easy and elegant all at once!
this is so pretty I love the presentation. Everyone would swoon over me serving something so gourmet they would think someone else did it! Great job!
I love the sound of that pesto and with the shrimp I’m sure it’s incredible!
What a fantastic dinner so full of flavor! Perfect for a date night in!
I’m intrigued. I’ve never used wild garlic before and wondering how the flavor differs from regular garlic. I’ll have to hunt it down and check it out!
This look easy to make, and will make a great date night dinner with my hubby! Love the pesto recipe and can’t wait to try it!
This looks very elegant, and yummy! I can’t wait to make this easy pesto shrimp! The pesto recipe looks really easy to make!
I don’t think I’ve ever seen wild garlic before. Does it look different from regular garlic? Do you find it in your supermarket?
Is there anything better than shrimp and pesto? I don’t think so and this looks delicious. I love simple meals like this that I can get on the table quickly during the week!
I can’t believe I haven’t heard of wild garlic before!! I’m such a garlic lover and I’ll definitely need to give this a try!
I’ve been all about quick and easy dinners recently too! But I don’t want to sacrifice flavour or use pre packaged stuff! This looks amazing, so many beautiful and fresh flavours; we need to make this for dinner ASAP!

Last weekend I shared a post about building a functional wardrobe (the post is here if you missed it!), and one of the essentials I shared was blouses. I’m all about t-shirts, but nice blouses that can be worn for slightly dressier occasions are an absolute must.
I found this one on sale last week and the gorgeous dusty pink lace instantly pulled me in. The details of the ladder trim at the neckline, and the mock neck make it feel really special. It runs a tiny bit big — I’m in an XS!
I tucked it into a pair of high waisted jeans (I’m wearing these ones, but these ones are similar and on sale!), but it would look amazing tucked into an a-line skirt with heels, or half tucked into boyfriend jeans with flat sandals, or with white skinny jeans and wedges. Lots of possibilities!
I also just got these little studded bow flats, and although they come in a bunch of other colors, I love a good neutral flat I can wear with everything. These run slightly small, so size up a half size!
18 Summer Tops Under $50!
The Nordstrom Anniversary sale is filled with tons of good Fall basics, but sometimes it can be hard to shop for cold weather items when it’s so hot outside! So I rounded up 18 of the best tops under $50, all perfect for summer — check them out below!
[note:] The sale is still in early access, and only open to Nordstrom card holders, but it opens to the public this Friday!
I also rounded up a bunch of favorites here, and tried on some favorites in the dressing room with fit and sizing details right here!
That top is so dreamy!!!
I love the lace top but is it lined at all?
The neck and sleeves are not lined, but the whole front is!

At “AT DESIGN GROUP” your privacy is our priority. We are committed to protecting your privacy at all times and in all situations. The information we collect about you when you become a member is used to process your orders and to provide a more personalised experience on our website. Our website uses 128 bit encryption in areas of the website where personal information is collected or displayed to increase the security of any information transmitted between your computer and our website. However, please note that we cannot guarantee complete security of all stored information, although, we do everything in our power to ensure that all information is secure.
Should there be a requirement for data are to be transferred to someone (other than the individual or the organisation or its employees), we will take reasonable steps to ensure that the data which is to be transferred will not be processed inconsistently with this Model Code.
The identity of the person(s) designated by our organisation to oversee the organisation's compliance with the principles shall be made known upon request.
We collect personally identifiable information for the sole purpose of registering a user and for transactional purposes on our web site. Personal data collected, will not be used for a new purpose unless we obtain consent from users. We are the sole owner of the personally identifiable information collected on this site.
We do not collect sensitive information from users. We assure users that all personal information collected would be used or disclosed only for the purposes for which it was collected.
We will obtain consent from users should we need to use the personal data for a new purpose or for a purpose not previously identified. We assure users that consent will be obtain prior to use of their personal data.
Users may withdraw consent at any time, subject to legal or contractual restrictions and reasonable notice. Users may only be subjected to consequences because of this decision where the information is required to fulfil the specified and legitimate purposes set out by the organisation.
Only the necessary personal data is collected from registered users for business purposes only. Both the amount and the type of data collected shall be limited to that which is necessary to fulfil the purposes identified.
We will not disclose, share, transfer, sell or rent personally identifiable information to any 3rd party. We do not send unsolicited marketing email to our users. Registered users will occasionally receive email on special promotions we hold. Out of respect for the privacy of our users, users may opt-out of receiving these communications by replying to unsubscribe in the subject line in the email.
We have developed guidelines and implemented procedures to govern the destruction of personal data that are no longer required to fulfil the identified purposes.
We would not display or make publicly available, whether through online directories, customer lists or otherwise, the personally identifiable information collected.
We ensure all users that all personal information collected is accurate and kept up to date. We will only make a request to users for updates of personal data if the update is necessary to fulfil the purposes for which the data was collected.
We do not maintain duplicate copies of personal information in different systems.
We ensure all users that appropriate security safeguards are in place to protect personal data against unauthorised access, misuse, disclosure, copying, use, alteration, accidental loss or theft, destruction or damage.
All employees in our organisation are aware of the importance of maintaining confidentiality of the personal data collected from users. Circulars are distributed to all employees to ensure they are aware of the compliance.
Cookies are pieces of information that your browser stores on your computer's hard drive which identify you when you enter. We may use session cookies to provide a seamless experience on the website and to combine with our log files so that we can understand our website traffic and analyse website usage information in aggregate form.
Users can write to us to request to obtain details of personal data submitted to our organisation.
We allow users the right to access their personal information. Users can access their personal information by using their respective username and password to gain access to their personal information.
If your personally identifiable information changes, or if you no longer desire our service, you may correct, update or remove your personal data at the member information page or by emailing our Customer Support.
We will respond to our customer’s request within a reasonable time and we charge / do not charge a reasonable fee / a fee for providing the information or data requested for.
Children (users under the age of 18 years) are not eligible to use our services or purchase any products online unsupervised.
We request that children do not submit any personal information to us online. If you are under the age of 18 years, you may only surf the Site only if you have obtained consent from your parents/legal guardian or if you are under the supervision of your parent or legal guardian.
when required by law wherein we have a good-faith belief that such action is necessary to comply with a current judicial proceeding, a court order or legal process served on our website.

Acer Aspire 4741G Drivers Free Driver and Software update Acer Aspire 4741G Sound Audio Driver 5734 Z win7 driver Acer Aspire 5734Z Ethernet.network controller driver windows 7 64 bit atheros acer aspire free download network controller driver windows 7 64 bit atheros acer aspire free download.Identify your Acer product and we will provide you with downloads, Highpoint Service Network Drivers and Manuals Identify your Acer Device.Download Acer Aspire 4741g Wireless Network Driver Absolutely Free! Acer Aspire 4741g Wireless Network Drivers ACER ASPIRE 1350 WIRELESS DRIVER.i want to download acer aspire 4741 network (wireless driver) Acer aspire 5742 network controller driver download · Wireless acer aspire .Acer Aspire 4741G Windows 7 Drivers. Aspire 4741G Driver and Software For Windows 7 64bit(x64) Acer Aspire 4741G Ethernet LAN Driver (Win7 64bit).Free acer aspire 4741 ethernet controller drivers downloads Acer ASPIRE X1200 Drivers Utility, Acer ASPIRE 5630 Drivers Utility.Ethernet Controller Driver for Acer - Aspire 4741 working on Microsoft Windows XP Professional. Device Name: Ethernet Controller. Hardware ID: PCI\VEN_14E4 DEV_1692.Network Controller Driver Acer Aspire One so I'm asking you people here if you know a good driver for the Network Controller of my Acer Aspire.Acer Aspire 4741G drivers. Please scroll down to find a latest utilities and drivers for your Acer Aspire 4741G. Network 1; OS Date added.Download the latest drivers for your Acer Aspire 4741G to keep your Computer up-to-date. Qualcomm Atheros AR5B93 Wireless Network Adapter. Driver Date .Acer Aspire Driver Downloads Network; Sound; TravelMate; Usb; Controller; Copier; Digital Album; Digital Camcorder; Digital Photo; Fax Machine.This page contains the list of device drivers for Acer Aspire 4741G. To download the proper driver, first choose your operating system, then find your device.Dec 13, 2010 Acer Aspire 4741/4741G Windows XP Driver NETWORK - LAN Broadcom LAN Driver v12.4.0.3 LAN Download Intel Wireless LAN Driver v13.0.0.107 Download Thanks for the drivers.but facing some problems.Acer Drivers Download by Acer Inc. BIOS / Motherboard Network / Ethernet Video / Graphics Mouse / Keyboard DRIVER NEEDED: Acer ASPIRE V7-482PG (Windows.Ethernet controller driver on Acer Aspire 5551 windows 7 64 bit is missing. Acer aspire 5735z wifi driver; Free ethernet controller driver for windows.network controller drivers for Acer aspire E1-531 windows7b 64 bits. Options. Mark as New; Bookmark; Subscribe; Subscribe to RSS Feed; Highlight; Print; Email.Download Acer Aspire 4741g Network Adapter Driver Absolutely Free! Acer Aspire 4741g Network Adapter Drivers ACER CARDREADER CONTROLLER DRIVER.Free acer aspire 4741 ethernet controller drivers downloads Acer ASPIRE 3050 Drivers Utility, Acer ASPIRE ONE 532H Drivers Utility.The Acer Aspire 4741G network card (nic) driver software that you are downloading is being downloaded Acer Aspire 4741G Network Card Driver; Acer Aspire.Official Acer Aspire 4741G Free Driver Download for Windows 7 Browse all Acer Network / Wireless drivers. Acer Driver Update Utility. Updates PC Drivers.Drivers for the laptop acer Aspire 4741G. Install native drivers for acer Aspire 4741G with DriverPack PCI, Broadcom NetLink (TM) Gigabit Ethernet DeviceID: .Search for BIOS updates, manuals, drivers and patches for your Acer products.After few updates from windows my Network controller driver Network controller driver not found (Acer Network controller driver not found (Acer Aspire.Free Download Acer Aspire 5742 Notebook Broadcom LAN Driver 14.0.1.0 (Network Acer Aspire 5742 Broadcom LAN Driver Acer Aspire 5742 LAN Driver Acer Aspire.Network Controller, Ethernet controller driver on Acer Aspire 5551 windows 7 64 bit is missing. Ethernet Controller troubles; Network Controller Driver.Search for BIOS updates, manuals, drivers and patches for your Acer products. in Products in Support in Press Drivers and Manuals. Identify your Acer Device.Download Acer Network drivers for your OS. Select your model from the list and download the driver. Browse the list to find drivers for your Acer Network model.Acer® Aspire 4741G Restore Disks Acer Aspire 4741G Network driver for use with the Broadcom NetLink Acer Aspire 4741G USB controller driver.I installed Windows 7 Ultimate on a Acer Aspire One who cannot find Ethernet/Network Controller Driver. who cannot find Ethernet/Network Controller.Acer Aspire 7741G Drivers. LAN Acer Aspire 7741G Ethernet For WindowsXP Dell Latitude D610 Broadcom 57XX Gigabit Integrated Controller Aplications.Windows 7 Drivers For Acer Aspire Acer Aspire 4741 Acer Aspire 4741 / 4741G / 4741Z / 4741ZG Windows 7 Drivers Download Now Acer Aspire 4741 4741G 4741Z.Download the latest drivers for your Acer Aspire 4741 to keep your Computer up-to-date. Ethernet Controller: Driver Date: 2012-10-15: File Size: Acer Aspire.Driver Acer Aspire 4741G Notebook for Windows 7. Attention:Please read the description first before downloading file in order to get the best compatibility.Drivers for the laptop Acer Aspire 4741. Install native drivers for Acer Aspire 4741 with DriverPack PCI, Qualcomm Atheros AR5008 Wireless Network Adapter.Download Acer Aspire 4741G Drivers for Windows 7, Ultrabook \ Acer Aspire \ Acer Aspire 4741G you can find find almost drivers for the Dell, Acer, Lenovo.Acer Aspire 4741/4741G Windows XP Driver Model: Acer aspire 4741/4741G Manufacture: Alcor Card Reader Driver v1.0.12.50 Download NETWORK.PCI simple communications controller acer 4741 driver download. And maybe download driver PCI simple communications controller acer Notebook ACER Aspire 4741G.on the network controller to ensure that Acer Aspire will be Network controller on Acer Aspire Driver issues. Since the network controller works.DriverAssist is the recommended Acer Aspire Ethernet Driver Update Utility.my acer aspire 5253 is missng it driver for network controller the wierd thing is the my acer aspire 5253 is missng it driver for network controller.Acer Aspire 4741G driver. Download Acer Aspire 4741G driver instantly for free. Make sure that the operating system you use is in the list of the supported.Download the latest drivers for your Acer Aspire 4741 to keep your Computer up-to-date. Device Name: Broadcom 802.11n Network Adapter. Driver Date .Acer Aspire 4741G Drivers Windows 7 Drivers (32bit) Acer Aspire Acer Aspire 4741G Ethernet LAN Driver Acer Aspire 4741G Drivers Windows 7 Drivers.Acer Aspire 4741g Ethernet Controller Driver Download,free Acer Aspire Acer Aspire 4741g Ethernet Controller Driver The Drivers Channel,The.Acer aspire 5750 Acer aspire 5250 network drivers Free dabluetooth driver for acer aspire 5733 Network Controller Driver for acer 725 DOWNLOAD acer aspire.Identify your Acer product and we will provide you with downloads, No results for "ethernet controller driver windows acer aspire" Search. About Acer. Contact.Restore Disk ISO Acer® Aspire 4741G Driver Acer® Aspire 4741G Network Devices Aspire 4741G USB Controller Acer® Aspire 4741G.the network controller to ensure that Acer Aspire will of network controllers on your Acer Aspire network controller drivers.DriverAssist is the recommended Acer Aspire Network Driver Update Utility.Free Download Acer Aspire V5-471 Realtek LAN Driver 7.054.0309.2012 for Windows 7 (Network Aspire V5-471 LAN Driver Aspire V5-471 Realtek LAN Driver Acer Aspire.Download the Wireless Network driver for the Acer Aspire One AO752. Download the Atheros AR813x PCI-E Ethernet Controller Driver for Acer network drivers.Broadcom 440x 10-100 Integrated Controller Ethernet Driver Ver. 4.23.0.0 acer ethernet driver free download Acer ALN-330 10/100M PCI Fast Ethernet Adapter.Acer Network Drivers - 2223 drivers found. Filter: Show All • Win Aspire 4741G driver, Bluetooth_Atheros_6.6_A.zip [more], Windows 7 x64. Aspire 4745G .I installed Windows 7 Ultimate on a Acer Aspire One HAPPY. Windows says that there are missing Ethernet Controller Driver and Network .Ethernet Controller Driver for Acer - Aspire 4741G (V1.28) working on Microsoft Windows 7 Ultimate.Aspire 4741g Ethernet Controller Driver, Acer Aspire 4741G Drivers Download, this page contains the list of device drivers for Acer Aspire 4741G.Search for "ethernet controller driver windows acer aspire" Search. Filters. Discussions (420) Answers (4) Solved: Aspire 5560G No Ethernet Driver Windows.I got an Acer Aspire V5-572G laptop. (ethernet or wireless) after fresh install. No network drivers (ethernet or wireless).

Property giant Hammerson - one of three partners behind Birmingham's hugely successful Bullring shopping centre - yesterday shrugged off the depression hanging over the UK retail sector with strong first half results.
Property giant Hammerson - one of three partners behind Birmingham&apos;s hugely successful Bullring shopping centre - yesterday shrugged off the depression hanging over the UK retail sector with strong first half results.
The company, which also owns major stakes in shopping centres, said that despite the slowdown in consumer confidence, its retail assets were continuing to attract good levels of demand from tenants.
Hammerson is part of the Birmingham Alliance, the partnership behind Bullring and Martineau Place shopping centres. Henderson Global Investors and Land Securities are the other companies involved.
Chief executive John Richards said: "There are some uncertainties in retail trends in the UK but I have to say that Hammerson properties are well positioned in the best sectors of the market - dominant regional shopping centres and high-quality retail parks."
Mr Richards said Bullring had performed particularly well - in fact "outperforming the general trend in UK retailing" and continuing to attract tourist shoppers as well as regular customers.
Hammerson posted a 21.6 per cent rise in half-year pretax profits to £247.3 million, while its property portfolio was valued at £4.8 billion at the end of June, with retail accounting for 71 per cent of the estate.
Profits were boosted by a £31.5 million gain on property sales, which included the sale of a property on Boulevard Haussmann in Paris. In total, the group raised £217 million from disposals.
Looking ahead, the property specialist said demand for office space in London and Paris was "encouraging". It also has significant new projects coming on stream, including the former Stock Exchange building in the City of London.
Outgoing chairman Ronald Spinney said: "I believe Hammerson is well placed to achieve good income growth from its reversionary retail portfolio, notwithstanding some uncertainties over trends in consumer expenditure in the UK.
"In addition, there is an encouraging improvement in demand for office accommodation, both in central London and Paris, and this should enable the group to achieve further lettings in its office portfolio."
Mr Spinney is standing down from the board at the end of September having spent 12 years with the company. He will be succeeded as chairman by non-executive director John Reynolds from October 1.
As well as working with councils to advance schemes in Kingston- upon- Thames, Leeds, Peterborough and Sheffield, Hammerson said it believed there were opportunities to "extend and enhance" a number of its existing shopping centres, including Bernt Cross in north London, West-Quay in Southampton and The Oracle in Reading.
Hammerson also forecast growth in office rents next year, when it expects to benefit from a low level of new supply, particularly in the City of London, and further falls in vacancy rates during the remainder of this year.
The company is also confident that office lettings will improve from their recent below-par performance.
Earnings per share fell 23.6 per cent, from 94.5p to 72.2p.
However, the interim dividend payment rises 6.4 per cent, from 5.45p to 5.8p per share.
Shares closed up 8p at 887p.

The Telemetry Distribution Board is a very useful addition when you have multiple devices to connect to your telemetry output, with this distribution board you can separate RX/TX signals between multiple devices like Minim OSD, IO Board, Radio modems etc. The Telemetry Board connects to your MAVLink (ArduPilot Mega) capable Flight Controller and you can easily connect several devices without having the problems of splicing and soldering the wires together.
The Telemetry Distribution Board has IN / OUT connectors as DF13-5P and 3 x 4 pin headers. If you have OSD and or IO Board connected and no telemetry modem, you can leave small jumper on. If you have OSD and or IO Board and telemetry modem connected, take out jumper to have normal operation on telemetry modems.
1 x Assembled jD-Telemetry board.
1 x 10cm extension cable.

BC Ferries garnered $315.8 million in revenue according to a new report from the passenger ferry operator, translating to net earnings of $90 million.
According to second quarter results in a press release, net earnings are down compared to the same period last year, a three-month term ending on Sept. 30.
The company said the decrease is the result of lowering fares and adding more sailings to meet customer demand.
“BC Ferries provided 288 (640 year-to-date) additional round trips compared to the same time last year throughout the system and adjusted the schedules for the routes operating out of Horseshoe Bay terminal,” said Mark Collins, president and CEO of BC Ferries.
In April, a fare reduction of 15 per cent was put into effect on all but three Metro Vancouver to Vancouver Island routes. As well, the seniors’ passengers discount was increased from 50 to 100 per cent for weekday travel, excluding Fridays.
The initiative is part of a two-year plan funded by the province and BC Ferries.
Additional sailings and the schedule adjustments required for them increased operating expenses by $13.9 million in the quarter. A new direct route between Port Hardy and Bella Coola also resulted in additional costs for labour, fuel and training.
BC Ferries plans to invest more than $3.9 million as part of its 12-Year Capital Plan, upgrading its fleet, utilizing alternative energy sources and overhauling terminals like the one at Swartz Bay.

Successfull business comes from good ideas and motivated people. Such is the story of Shefqet Krasniqi, from the village of Terpeza in Malishevo.
Successfull business comes from good ideas and motivated people. Such is the story of Shefqet Krasniqi, from the village of Terpeza in Malishevo. He deals with the collecting and packaging of fruits and leaves with healing additives.
From the loan he took from KEP in 2011, in amount of 2,000 EURO, he expanded and developed his business. He actually can collect more then 80 flowers with healing additives and plans to expand it to 200 pieces. His work ensures a regular family income and there are also other families with whom he cooperates to get the flowers and fruits from them. throughout Kosovo.

1) The development of screw conveyor can be divided into two process, shaft type auger conveyor and shaftless type auger conveyor.
a. Shaft type auger conveyor consists of screw, U type trough, cover plate, inlet, outlet and drive device, which has three types of installation mode, horizontal, inclined and vertical mounting.
b. Shaftless type auger conveyor uses shaftless spiral blade to replace screw, and U type trough is equipped with replaceable lining. The structure of shaftless type auger conveyor is simple, the material is fed into inlet and moving towards outlet by spiral blades. The whole conveying process is made in a fully closed trough.
2) GX type auger conveyor is appeared in early phase of screw conveyor and is the earliest universal equipment in China. It mainly transports powdery, granular and small lumpy material, and is not suitable to convey perishable, viscous, easily caked and large chunks of material, because these material are easy to bond on the spiral blades, or block at the position of hanger bearing, which will cause inconvenience to the transportation process. The advantages of GX screw conveyor are energy-saving, low consumption, dust prevention, good sealing, low noise, well-adapted, easy operation and maintenance, flexible arrangement of the positions of inlet and outlet. The disadvantages are huge power consumption, quick wearing of conveyor parts, serious material crushing in the transportation process.
3) LS type auger conveyor is new generation of screw conveyor, which is designed and improved on the basis of GX type auger conveyor. The advantages are novel structure, reliable performance, advanced technology, wide range of application, significant energy saving and consumption reducing.
1) Large capacity, high speed and long service life.
2) Low energy consumption. Most of the energy for screw conveyor is spent on abrasion.
3) Intelligent development. The future auger conveyor should be closely connected with computer. It will be suitable for program control and intelligent operation. The material handling, equipment installation and maintenance should be intelligent management.
4) Screw conveyor can be curved transportation.
5) Combined, compound and large-scale transportation mode. Screw conveyors are co-used with various kinds of continuous conveying equipments to finish complicated material handling. Large-scale transportation includes large capacity, the length of single conveyor and high angle conveying, etc.
6) To expand the scope of application. At present, the usage range of auger conveyor is restricted. The scope of application should be expanded, to design the auger conveyors that can be operated in corrosive, radioactive, flammable material environment in the condition of high and low temperatures, as well as the conveyors which can transport molten, explosive, easily coking and viscous materials.
7) To design auger conveyor using environmental awareness, and reduce the pollution to achieve the goal of green design.
PK Machinery is a professional manufacturer of vibrating screen, screw conveyor, belt conveyor, bucket elevator and scraper conveyor, further information, please click:www.pkmachinery.com.

These Card Characters are a new range of LogoBugs that are a little different from the standard LogoBug. There are four constituent parts to these bugs - the fluffy pom and the ribbon of course, but these character LogoBugs then have printed cardboard feet to the front of the pom and then an additional printed cardboard head to the rear. Promotional LogoBugs, sometimes called 'Weebles' have a sticky pad underneath the character making them excellent for sticking around the office or in the car as they stick to almost anything, the computer screen, the fridge, the dashboard...anything!! Every Printed LogoBug sits on its own ribbon and it's here that we'll print your name, logo or message. If your artwork fits - we'll print it on there for you, and best of all, the print will be in FULL COLOUR.
Can you find a Card Character Bug that's right for your marketing campaign?
Part of a range of dog card character LogoBugs, this one is a labrador.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little beaver is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Cat is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little pup is sure to be popular with your customers.
This little pup is cute and cuddly and a brilliant way to sneakily advertise your brand identity.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little bunny is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Duckling is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Pig is sure to be popular with your customers.
With full colour printing onto the ribbon. Loyal and sweet, give these cute little pup Logo Bugs to your customers. A top choice we think...time for a treat?
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Horse is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Leopard is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Lion is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Panda is sure to be popular with your customers.
Shaped like a Squirrel - these amazing little character bugs are a fun way to get your message across.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little bear is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Tiger is sure to be popular with your customers.
Celebrate Thanksgiving or Christmas with this fantastic promotional gift for customers. It is available in a variety of different colours and is a great way to get your message across.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little unicorn is sure to be popular with your customers.

Here are this weeks deals at Target! Remember that at Target you can "Stack" manufacturers and store coupons on the same item. Be sure to go to Target.com and print your target coupons. Also, sign up for Targets Text Alerts to get great coupons sent right to your phone!
FREE Zantac Sample! HURRY! Won't Last!
This one was gone way too fast the last time it went up. Hurry up and get your FREE sample of Zantac!
Available in e-book format also!
Share Your Opinion, Get Paid!
i-Say is a community of dedicated individuals comprised of hundreds of thousands of people all interested in achieving one goal - sharing their opinions. i-Say panel members take surveys, create polls and help shape the products and services we all use every day.
Dr Seuss up tp 70% Off!
Get Dr. Seuss up to 70% off at Totsy!
Make your little one a resident of Seussville in quirky and adorable clothing from Dr. Seuss. With characters taken right out of the classic children's books, this selection of bodysuits, long underwear and hoodies will delight your little Dr. Seuss fans. Fits infant and toddler.
Not Too Early for Christmas! HURRY!
Need Back To School Clothes?
Turn Your Summer Pictures into Canvas!
Now that Summer is almost over, I am sure you have lots of great summer family pictures that are just stored on your memory card or hard drive. Why not turn one into a beautiful canvas print for FREE! I have gotten 2 so far and love the quality! These make great gifts as well! Go through Canvas People and get a FREE 8x10 Photo Canvas or $50 towards any size canvas!
FREE Oikos Greek Yogurt Sunday!
Don't throw away your paper, look on the last page of Parade magazine inside your Sunday paper for FREE Dannon Oikos Greek Yogurt (up to $3 value). I have found that about every other Parade mag has the coupons in them. So if your buying a paper at a store or box, make sure to check the Parade mag for the coupon before buying the paper for that coupon.
Thanks Mojo Savings for the tip!
Free Samples For Women Selected by Women!
Account and you can cash it out when you get $5 saved up!
Here is a look at this weeks best deals at Rite Aid. Be sure to watch your Video Values for August and print your coupons!
Here is a look at this weeks deals at Walgreens. There are quite a few good deals this week and a great scenario to help you get the most out of this week!
Get Your $2 Puppy Chow Printable Coupon! HURRY!
I am a Mom and have looked forward to school starting all summer! Being a Work From Home Mom, it is hard to work on my website and keep up with a 5 year old. Now that school has started, I actually have some time to myself again! I found a great website for Moms called CafeMom which is filled with great information, great advice and a great way to meet other moms who share the same interests. Check it out here!
If you are not a Swagbucks user, you should definitely give it a try!
**It is MEGA Swagbucks Friday! That means you have a better chance at getting high value Swagbucks for your searches!
You can also earn Swagbucks through special Swag Codes that are hidden online.
Shop in the Swagstore! You can redeem your swagbucks for all kinds of neat things! The gift $5 card for Amazon are the best value costing only 450 Swagbucks!
Here is a look at the CVS deals 8/21 - 8/27. I could not find anything free this week but there are some good deals. If you have rainchecks, this week would be a great week to use them. Remember to scan your CVS card at the red coupon machine in the store so you can get your CVS coupons! Visit the coupon center this week for a $3 off Any $15 stomach remedy purchase. Also, don't forget to get and use your Green Bag Tag!
Extreme Measures - Newspaper Theft on the Rise!
My Coupon Friend, Nathan Engles from We Use Coupons, was interviewed for USA Today. Please take a moment and read this article here. The article is about how newspaper theft is on the rise. Nathan is an example that you don't have to steal to get great deals!
My favorite quote from Nathan was "It looks like a meaningless little piece of paper," he says, "but it's changed my life in ways I could have never imagined."
I have found that organized couponing is essential to saving money at the stores. In order to really make the most of your couponing, you need to have a way to organize your coupons. I use a binder system. I use a Case-it binder with a carrying strap and 9 slot baseball card sheets to put my coupons in. I have found a few places that you can get starter kits and other items to help get organized. I have also found a few great resources for purchasing newspaper insert coupons and full inserts.
Get In On The Daily Deals!
There are a lot of daily deal websites popping up. It is best to take advantage of these websites and sign up for your daily e-mail for each one. You will be surprised at how many great deals are out there on a daily basis! If you don't have e-mail notification, then you may miss out. I have scored movie tickets, concert tickets, free movie rentals, and more by using these daily deal websites. Although, they may not have a location where you live, choose the closest. You will find that there are a lot of online deals that are good anywhere or for major retailers that are available anywhere.
Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc. (NASDAQ: WINN), today announced that flu vaccinations are now available in all Winn-Dixie in-store pharmacies to help prepare guests for the upcoming flu season. Guests will receive the flu vaccine for the discounted rate of $24.99 when purchased using their Winn-Dixie Customer Reward Card.
*HOT* $0.75 Waverly Printable Coupon!
Hurry up and print your $0.75/1 Waverly Printable Coupon here before it hits the print limit! This one will not last long!
Here is this week's top 5 Deals at Publix. Publix sales in the metro Atlanta area run Thursday-Wednesday, with all other Publix stores running Wednesday-Tuesday sales. Publix doubles coupons of .50 cents or less everyday. There are no limits on how coupons Publix will double in one transaction. Publix accepts competitor coupons! Please ask your store's customer service desk who they consider to be competitors. Mine are Kroger, Super Target and Food Lion. You can combine 1 manufacturers coupon with 1 Publix coupon OR competitor store coupon on the same item. Publix offers a Mystery Coupon Item or a Penny Coupon Item on Wednesdays & Thursdays depending on when your ad comes out. This item is available for .01 cent with a minimum purchase of $10 AFTER coupons. Some stores require the coupon paper ad, some do not. Please ask for details at your store!
Here are this weeks top deals at Food Lion. Food Lion allows up to 10 "like" coupons per shopping trip. Be sure to sign up for Food Lion e-mails so you will get FLIPs (Food Lion Internet Printables). Also, be sure to check out the e-coupons that are available on the Food Lion website. You cannot "Stack" coupons at Food Lion. That means you can only use 1 coupon per item. That means that you have to choose one or the other.
Lowe's Foods doubles coupons every day up to $0.99 Value. They double 20 coupons per day. Read more about their policy here.
Here is this weeks deals at Harris Teeter. After a long week of Super Doubles, I was ready for a break. However, this weeks looks great so I will be making a trip back to Harris Teeter tomorrow! Harris Teeter doubles coupons every day up to $0.99 value. They have a limit of 20 coupons doubled per day with a limit of 3 "Like" coupons/items. They also limit printable coupons to 2 identical per day.
Here are this weeks deals at Bi-Lo. Remember that the new coupon policy states that you can use "Competitor" coupons and stack "Store" and "Manufacturer" coupons on the same item. They will also double up to $0.60 (some stores double up to $0.99) everyday. They also have a limit of 10 "Like" coupons per trip.
Right now you can get a $30 Totsy voucher for only $15 at BuyWithMe! Totsy always has some AMAZING deals - I have purchased from them several times!
*HOT* $1 off Skittles, Starburst or Lifesavers Bag!
This HOT coupon is back!! This $1 off any one Skittles, Starburst or Gummy Lifesavers bag coupon should get you some super inepensive candy to curb that sweet tooth! Right now both the Skittles and Starburst are only $1.50 at my Kroger store so guess what I’ll be snacking on tonight? HURRY because this never lasts long!!
*HOT* $1 off ANY Minute Maid 10 Pack!
There is a new coupon available on Coupons.com for $1 off ANY Minute Maid 10 Pack Juice drinks! If you have a Harris Teeter nearby, they have the Minute Maid Water Beverage 10 pack for $2.79. Use the $1 coupon doubled and get it for only $0.79!!!
I have not seen any Minute Maid juice box coupons in the past so this is a great RARE coupon! Print it HERE before it is gone!!!
*HOT* Win a Memory Foam Luxury Bath Mat Back To School Giveaway!
Make stepping out of a bath or shower just as refreshing as stepping in with this best-selling bath mat. The Microdry fabric top is super soft and absorbs water twice as fast as other materials to keep you dry and cozy. The generous ½" memory foam fill cradles your feet to offer ultimate feel-good cushioning. A slip-resistant base grips a dry bathroom floor firmly for your safety.
I was given a fabulous opportunity to try out and review the bath mat and our whole family loves it! I immediately put it in our bathroom and started trying it out right away. It is so incredibly soft and luxurious! I find myself standing on the mat every time I go into the bathroom because it feels so good! And the fact that it is slip resistant and absorbs moisture are added bonuses! It lives up to it's claims! If you are looking for a great wedding gift, Christmas gift or even a gift to yourself, this is worth it! You can find these at Bed Bath and Beyond!
*Disclosure: MindsInSync Inc. (representing Microdry) has offered to sponsor this giveaway. No compensation was received for this post.
*HOT* Hallmark's Confidence Care Package Back To School Giveaway!
A big thanks to Hallmark for sponsoring this awesome prize for the Back To School Giveaway!
I was given the opportunity to review the Confidence Care Package and love it! The Hallmark cards are a great way to show care and love. My youngest loves the ladybug case and thinks the note cards are sweet! And my husband recorded the book and my youngest loves it!
With backpacks full of new pencils, binders and glue, kids might think they’re ready to take on the first day of school. But, sometimes kids need more than school supplies to face the exciting and challenging situations the upcoming year holds. That’s why Hallmark has created a back-to-school confidence checklist!
Let them hold onto your words. Kids often get embarrassed when parents say “I love you” in front of their friends. Think about sticking a card in their backpack or inside a textbook, so they can find it later and hold onto it all day.
Surprise your child with a lunchtime delight. Fruits and veggies will help a kid be physically fit, but don’t forget about a child’s emotional wellness. The unexpected “I love you” or “good luck” will let your child know you’re by their side, even after they get on the school bus.
Pass the encouragement bug around your family. Challenge the entire family to support each other by passing around the encouragement bug — Hallmark’s Bug ‘Em. One person starts by filling Bug ‘Em with treats, a coupon to do something nice (e.g., make their sibling’s bed) or a kind note of encouragement, and then leaves Bug ‘Em where the recipient will find it. Once the recipient finds Bug ‘Em, he or she is charged with surprising another family member and spreading the encouragement bug.
We have done the homework for you and want to give you a jumpstart on the school year.
*BONUS* Hallmark Recordable Storybook - Recordable Storybooks allow you to record your voice, and your little ones can read along with you even if you’re far away. They are also great for encouraging your kids to read and building confidence for reading aloud!
Print your Quiznos coupons before they are gone!
Decoding Coupon Barcodes - Is It Wrong?
I was shopping in Harris Teeter yesterday and ran into an interesting situation. Because I am often recognized at the stores, people always ask me questions. I am more than happy to help. However, when I have to tell someone their doing something "Wrong" I feel bad. I had to deal with that yesterday.
First of all, I was asked if there was a way to read the coupon bar code to see if they can use it on other products than what it was intended for. I answered "No, I don't teach that practice". Then I was informed that a customer in the store told them about it and was doing it regularly. I was a little upset about this. Practices like that is the reason stores are tightening up their coupon policies and making it harder for us to get great deals.
Simply put, it is deciphering the bar code on a coupon to see if it will work on different (preferably less expensive) items.
Look at coupon barcode decoding this way: It is like using counterfeit money to pay for your purchase! Although the cashier may not notice you are paying with a counterfeit bill, it will eventually reveal itself and the store looses out. A coupon is a form of payment and by not getting what the coupon says it is for is the same as paying with counterfeit money.
So, please read your coupons, get exactly what it says it is for and follow the parameters given by the coupon. Please don't use the barcode to determine what you can get because you know the register won't beep. Just because the register does not beep, does not mean that it is OK.
There are plenty of other websites and blogs that teach this practice and believe that it is OK. Please Be Aware! They believe they are right and have no problem teaching others to do the same. Taking advantage of a glitch in the bar code to get around the text of the coupon is fraud.

Saturday July 06th - 8:30am to 11am Our community is working so hard to cleanup and rebuild was has been lost by so many of us. Please take a short break from all of your efforts and join us for a great free breakfast that will allow us to say thank you, and to help fuel-up for the day. We will be accepting donations via cheque to the Canadian Red Cross Alberta Flood relief fund to further aid those most affected in our community. If you know of anyone that is still displaced from their homes, please forward this invitation for a great start to the day!

Lock in a great price for Lederer's living – rated 9.5 by recent guests!
As always words can’t express enough how marvelous our stay was, would love to stay in all the year around!
Spacious room, clean, huge comfortable bed, balcony with amazing view. There's a refrigerator, espresso machine and a water heater. Excellent room service. The Staff are very nice.
Wonderful stay ,very quit area , in front of river, helpful-smile staff , cleanliness and verity of breakfast.
Location and facility were superb. Owner was also friendly.
Lederer's living This rating is a reflection of how the property compares to the industry standard when it comes to price, facilities and services available. It's based on a self-evaluation by the property. Use this rating to help choose your stay!
One of our best sellers in Kaprun! Lederer’s living is a modern design hotel in the center of Kaprun. The property features a restaurant serving a buffet breakfast and all guests enjoy free admission to the Tauern Spa Kaprun.
The ski bus to the Kitzsteinhorn and Schmittenhöhe ski areas stops only 250 feet from Lederer’s living. Ski equipment can be stored and ski passes can be bought on site. After a long day outdoors, guests can relax in the penthouse sauna overlooking Kaprun, in the lounge with a fireplace and on the sun terrace.
All apartments and rooms offer panoramic views of the surrounding Alpine landscape from the balcony. An LCD TV with cable channels, espresso machine and seating area are found in all rooms. The private bathroom has a bath or shower and comes with a variety of bathroom amenities.
The hotel offers free Wi-Fi and free use of its underground car park. Packed lunches and breakfast in the room can be organized.
The Tauern Spa and cross-country ski runs are 5 minutes’ drive from the hotel. Ortsmitte Bus Stop is a minutes’ walk away.
This property also has one of the top-rated locations in Kaprun! Guests are happier about it compared to other properties in the area.
This property is also rated for the best value in Kaprun! Guests are getting more for their money when compared to other properties in this city.
When would you like to stay at Lederer's living?
This room offers a balcony with view. The bathroom features a tropical-style shower.
Please note that the maximum occupancy of this room is 3 people, 1 extra bed is available on request.
This room consists of two bedroom with a large double bed in each and features views of the surrounding Alpine landscape from the balcony. A Nintendo Wii is provided in the room.
Please note that the room rate is based on 3 People or 2 adults and 2 children up to 12 years.
Please note that extra beds are not possible in this room type, the maximum occupancy is 4 people.
This spacious apartment features views of the surrounding Alpine landscape from the spacious balcony. It is fitted with a fully-equipped kitchenette and dining area. There are 2 private bathrooms with a bath or shower.
The rate is based on 4 people, maximum occupancy of the room is 6 people on request and at a surcharge.
Please note that the final cleaning fee is waived if the apartment is left in a satisfactory condition.
Please note that the maximum occupancy of this room is 2 people, extra beds are not possible in this room type.
This suite consists of 2 bedrooms with a kingsize double bed in each bedroom. It offers a balcony and a private saune with wellness-shower.
Please note that extra beds are not possible in this room type, the maximum occupancy for this room is 4 people.
House Rules Lederer's living takes special requests – add in the next step!
Lederer&#39;s living accepts these cards and reserves the right to temporarily hold an amount prior to arrival.
Lederer's living accepts these cards and reserves the right to temporarily hold an amount prior to arrival.
Spotless, beautiful and comfortable design. Friendly staff, amazing breakfast. The best part is the unlimited access to the Tauern Spa in the room price.
Great place with very friendly and helpful owners and all stuff. Very comfy rooms and great spa.
The terras outside, the location is perfect and the atmosphere in the whole hotel is relaxed and easy. perfectly decorated with an eye to detail.. very good breakfast.
Great location. The new ski lift will be completed in December 2019; there will be no more bus rides to Kaprun.
Not really dislike, but be aware the underground parking spaces are extremely limited in size, so if you are driving anything like a Land Rover Discovery, you will find it challenging to park.
the staff really helpful and kind..
Ski Room with stairs, but tiny detail.
Great Breakfast, Great Room, Great Hospitality.
Owners and staff were friendly and helpful. Location nearby to Tauren Spa with free entry provided by the accommodation.
Central location = a bit of noise from apres ski next door.
Very nice, new, cosy hotel. Wonderfull staff! Excellent breakfast.

Last summer I took a cross-country road trip with a group of people driving different types of electric vehicles.
It was an amazing experience, and our trip, our adventures, and our misadventures were portrayed in the documentary Kick Gas.
That experience gave me the idea to take my own road trip to experience the freedom of traveling alone on an electric motorcycle.
My goals were simple: ride the great motorcycle roads of America, meet other electric motorcycle riders, and visit friends.
The cross-country trip last summer taught me that charging stations are plentiful near cities, but sparse near the good roads. By "good roads" I mean the mountainous, twisty, curvy, windy, fun roads you dream about when buying a motorcycle!
To take road trips in an electric vehicle as easily as in a gas-powered vehicle, two things are necessary: a car with a highway range of 150-plus miles, plus DC fast charging available every 50 miles. That would be a good beginning as we await an affordable 1,000-mile battery.
Currently drivers must rely on the availability of public and private charging stations to venture further than half the range of their electric vehicle. This creates a bit of an adventure if you want to take a journey of, say, 4,000 miles.
Public charging stations are easiest to access. On the East Coast, you can show up at a charging station and pretty much expect that nobody else will be plugged in.
That's not the case in California, which has a much higher density of electric vehicles--at least some of them already using the charging station you've just arrived at.
My favorite public charging stations are at restaurants, so I have a place to eat and relax while my vehicle is charging. On this trip, I stopped at several Cracker Barrel restaurants in Tennessee and a Makuto's Japanese restaurant in Boone, North Carolina.
Car dealerships will let motorcycles charge, although not always electric cars of another make. Nissan in particular has outfitted their dealerships with 240-Volt Lvel 2 chargers, and more recently, some of them now have high-powered CHAdeMO DC fast chargers.
Even dealerships that normally only allow charging by cars sold by that dealer will allow me to plug in my electric motorcycle, since it's unique. Some dealers happily let me charge, others let me charge after a little conversation.
Still, recharging my electric bike at a car dealer proved less than ideal, since they're often far from food or anywhere interesting to hang out.
Personal homes are fun if you plan ahead. I've met some interesting folks who make their home Level 2 charging stations available to travelers by listing them on the PlugShare app. They are lovely people, and meeting them is a fun part of being an early adopter.
Clearly, though, using someone's home charging station is not a sustainable way to propel electric vehicles forward.
The fun riding part of my journey began in Front Royal, Virginia, on Skyline Drive going through the Shenandoah Mountains. The road winds its way around the mountaintops and was designed as a sightseeing project by the Civilian Conservation Corps during the Great Depression of the 1930s.
After a great day on Skyline Drive, I got to ride through the back woods around Blacksburg, Virginia, until I reached the glorious Blue Ridge Parkway. The road is absolutely incredible, flowing through farmland and mountains on either side for miles and miles.
I made a brief stop in Asheville to swing -dance to bluegrass music with friends from Italy; I rode to the top of Mt. Mitchell, and then I headed to the best motorcycle road in America, known as the Dragon.
After riding the Dragon, I headed to Nashville to visit some electric-motorcycle friends, and we headed down the famous Natchez Trace Parkway. This is another phenomenally beautiful road with scenic stops and meandering curves that caress the local terrain.
The first half of my journey ended in St. Louis, where I attended my cousin's wedding and visited the Country Music Hall of Fame. My trip was broken up because I had to fly back to New York City for a week, but I'll resume today--traveling to Chicago, Cleveland, and Rochester, New York, on my way to ride up New Hampshire's Mount Washington.
1) It's still an adventure to take an electric-vehicle road trip (unless you're driving a Tesla using the company's Supercharger network).
2) While it's easy to find charging stations, they're not always guaranteed to be available. They could be in use already, not working at all, or--worst of all--they might be "ICEd," or blocked by a thoughtless driver of an internal-combustion engine (ICE) car.
3) Most people at RV campgrounds are super-nice! I've shown up to many campgrounds unannounced, and most were incredibly welcoming and let me recharge my motorcycle for free (even though I always offer to pay the dollar or so for the electricity).
4) To take a road trip in any electric vehicle, you need to plan ahead. At the start of each day, I decided where my stops for charging would be--including alternate locations if available.
6) A couple of RV parks have claimed that they needed to replace receptacles to their 50-Amp hookup after a Tesla used it. This should be further investigated, as electric-vehicle owners very much don't want to burn those bridges or create any distrust of our community on the part of park owners.
7) When I learn a Tesla has stopped at an RV park, the park operators will often ask me for $10 or more to recharge (my bike uses maybe $0.60 of electricity). This highlights the fact that most people have no idea how much electricity costs--and no one understands how much electricity different electric vehicles use. My motorcycle battery holds one-tenth the energy of a Tesla battery, so the cost for electricity is a factor of 10 less--but I often have to explain that slowly and carefully.

A powerful memory is all what we all are looking for these days. A better and powerful memory always helps you to be a step ahead in your jobs, schools, and more in your life. With a powerful memory you can learn new things very fast which can help you to make money as fast learners always in demand of every employer. You can consider few memory improvement tips in your daily life to enhance your memorizing capabilities. Although except all those tips to improve your memory the best way you can try out by yourself in remembering process which involves most of your memory and helps to pay a better attention, planning and organizing.
Now, here I am with some memory improvement tips which can change your lifestyle and helps you to have a powerful memory. So, here are 10 such memory improvement tips.
Clench your fist: According toresearch, clenching your right hand and squeezing it tightly can help you to memorize phone numbers or shopping lists.
Say it loud: This is the easiest way to improve your memory. Saying the things you want to remember to yourself loudly can help you to recall.
Focus your attention on materials you are studying: In order to memorize something deeply and converting that knowledge or information from short-term memory into long-term memory you need to be active and pay your full attention.
Exercise more: It is also said that exercise helps to increase the number of brain cells, with the growth of new brain cells in the hippocampus (i.e. an area of the brain important in memory and learning). According to the several studies, it has been found that aerobic exercise enhances memory and improves cognitive functions.
Utilization of mnemonic devices: You can use mnemonics for remembering things. This is the simple way to memorize something you want to keep in your mind for long-term memory. You can use mnemonics rhyme, song or a joke which is somehow related to the matter you want to memorize and those kinds of mnemonics are best which utilize positive imagery, humor and novelty.
Visualizing concept: If you are studying something then it will be fruitful to you when that remains in your memory so for that pay an extra attentions to pictures, diagrams, charts or graphics. You can also highlights the important things you need to remember with colorful pens draw charts or figures with your idea on your note books so that it will be easier for you to remember things.
Drink Green Tea: Regularly drinking green tea can improve your memory and its key ingredients- the organic molecule EGCG (epigallocatechin-3 gallate), an antioxidant that protects against age-related degenerative illnesses.
Doodle: According to Plymouth University researchers, during memory test they found that doodlers performed 29% better than non-doodlers when they were asked to recall places, names, etc. Doodling helps you to concentrate on the task what you are doing at the moment.
Get enough sleep: According to study, it was found that people having not enough sleep affects the storage of memories and makes us forget soon due to formation of beta amyloid, the toxic protein that clogs up the brain.
Nature effects: According to the study made in US, it has been found that person who walked around looking at nature did 20% better than others during memory test.
Likewise, you can try out these above mentioned tips if you are searching for the answer regarding memory improvement.

Pre-Owned, AWD Titanium 4dr Crossover, Ebony interior, Gas, 20(city)/27(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 6 speed, I4, 2.00L, All wheel drive. EPA 27 MPG Hwy/20 MPG City! Nav System, Heated Leather Seats, All Wheel Drive, Power Liftgate, iPod/MP3 Input, Premium Sound System AND MORE KEY FEATURES INCLUDE: All ... 4/19/2019 ~ Scottsbluff, Nebraska ~ 0.0 mi.
Pre-Owned, AWD SEL 4dr Crossover, Gas, 18(city)/25(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 6 speed, V6, 3.50L, All wheel drive. ONLY 34,000 Miles! CD Player, iPod/MP3 Input, Dual Zone A/C, Onboard Communications System, Alloy Wheels, All Wheel Drive AND MORE KEY FEATURES INCLUDE: All Wheel Drive, Satellite Radio, iPod/MP3 ... 4/18/2019 ~ Scottsbluff, Nebraska ~ 0.0 mi.
Pre-Owned, XLT 4dr SuperCab 4WD SB, GasAuto, V6, 4.00L, Four wheel drive. EPA 20 MPG Hwy/17 MPG City! Running Boards, iPod/MP3 Input, CD Player, CLOTH FRONT 60/40 SPLIT BENCH SEAT, Alloy Wheels CLICK NOW KEY FEATURES INCLUDE: 4x4, Running Boards, iPod/MP3 Input, CD Player, Aluminum ... 4/18/2019 ~ Scottsbluff, Nebraska ~ 0.0 mi.
Pre-Owned, 4x4 LTZ 4dr Crew Cab SB, Ebony interior, DieselAuto 6 speed, V8, 6.60L. GREAT MILES 52,060! Heated Leather Seats, 4x4, Turbo, Alloy Wheels, Onboard Communications System, Satellite Radio, Tow Hitch CLICK ME KEY FEATURES INCLUDE: Leather Seats, 4x4, Heated Driver Seat, Premium Sound System, ... 4/17/2019 ~ Scottsbluff, Nebraska ~ 0.0 mi.
Pre-Owned, 4x4 XLT 4dr SuperCrew 5.5 ft. SB, Medium Earth Gray interior, Flexible Fuel, 15(city)/21(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 6 speed, V8, 5.00L. EPA 21 MPG Hwy/15 MPG City! Bluetooth, iPod/MP3 Input, Smart Device Integration, CD Player, 4x4, ENGINE: 5.0L V8 FFV, Alloy Wheels CLICK ME KEY ... 4/17/2019 ~ Scottsbluff, Nebraska ~ 0.0 mi.
Pre-Owned, Base 4dr Sedan, Ebony interior, Gas, 22(city)/30(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 4 speed, I4, 2.40L, Front wheel drive. FUEL EFFICIENT 30 MPG Hwy/22 MPG City! G6 trim. AUDIO SYSTEM, AM/FM STEREO WITH CD PL Onboard Communications System. CLICK NOW KEY FEATURES INCLUDE: Onboard Communications System MP3 ... 4/17/2019 ~ Scottsbluff, Nebraska ~ 0.0 mi.
Pre-Owned, 4x4 Trailhawk 4dr SUV, Gas, 19(city)/26(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 9 speed, V6, 3.20L. EPA 26 MPG Hwy/19 MPG City! ONLY 41,158 Miles! Heated Leather Seats, iPod/MP3 Input, Satellite Radio, Smart Device Integration CLICK NOW KEY FEATURES INCLUDE: Leather Seats, 4x4, Back-Up Camera, Satellite Radio, iPod/MP3 ... 4/17/2019 ~ Scottsbluff, Nebraska ~ 0.0 mi.
Pre-Owned, AWD XLT 4dr SUV, Camel interior, Flexible Fuel, 18(city)/23(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 6 speed, V6, 3.00L, All wheel drive. Clean CARFAX. 2012 Ford Escape XLT Features: AWD. Odometer is 72570 miles below market average! Awards 2012 KBB.com Total Cost of Ownership Awards * 2012 KBB.com ... 4/16/2019 ~ Torrington, Wyoming ~ 29.2 mi.
$20,995 ~ 96,077 mi ~ Summit White ~ Good deal!
Pre-Owned, 4x4 LT 4dr SUV, Light Titanium interior, Flexible Fuel, 15(city)/21(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 6 speed, V8, 5.30L. Clean CARFAX. Summit White 2013 Chevrolet Tahoe LT Features: 4WD, light titanium dark titanium Cloth. Odometer is 12699 miles below market average! Awards JD Power Initial Quality Study ... 4/16/2019 ~ Torrington, Wyoming ~ 29.2 mi.
$20,995 ~ 52,957 mi ~ Deep Cherry Red ~ Good deal!
Pre-Owned, Limited 4dr Mini-Van, Black interior, Flexible Fuel, 17(city)/25(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 6 speed, V6, 3.60L, Front wheel drive. Clean CARFAX. Deep Cherry Red Crystal 2016 Chrysler Town Country Limited Features: black Leather. Recent Arrival! Awards JD Power Initial Quality Study (IQS 2016 KBB.com Brand Image ... 4/16/2019 ~ Torrington, Wyoming ~ 29.2 mi.
$17,995 ~ 74,241 mi ~ Silver Ice Metallic ~ Good deal!
Pre-Owned, AWD LTZ 4dr SUV, Brownstone interior, Gas, 20(city)/29(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 6 speed, I4, 2.40L, All wheel drive. Silver Ice Metallic 2015 Chevrolet Equinox LTZ Features: AWD. Odometer is 17063 miles below market average! 20/29 City/Highway MPG Awards JD Power Initial Quality Study * 2015 ... 4/16/2019 ~ Torrington, Wyoming ~ 29.2 mi.
Pre-Owned, EX 4dr Sedan, Black interior, Gas, 31(city)/41(highwa­y) mpg, Continuously Variable, I4, 2.00L, Front wheel drive. FUEL EFFICIENT 41 MPG Hwy/31 MPG City! LOW MILES - 19,906! EX trim. Moonroof, Onboard Communications System, Remote Engine Start. AND MORE KEY FEATURES INCLUDE: Sunroof, Back-Up Camera, iPod/MP3 ... 4/14/2019 ~ Scottsbluff, Nebraska ~ 0.0 mi.
Pre-Owned, LT 4dr Sedan, Jet Black / Dark Titanium interior, Gas, 22(city)/30(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 6 speed, I4, 2.50L, Front wheel drive. FUEL EFFICIENT 30 MPG Hwy/22 MPG City! Onboard Communications System, Satellite Radio, Remote Engine Start, WiFi Hotspot, Rear Air AND MORE KEY FEATURES INCLUDE: ... 4/13/2019 ~ Scottsbluff, Nebraska ~ 0.0 mi.
Pre-Owned, AWD SLT-2 4dr SUV, Brownstone interior, Flexible Fuel, 16(city)/23(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 6 speed, V6, 3.00L, All wheel drive. EPA 24 MPG Hwy/17 MPG City! Moonroof, Heated Leather Seats, All Wheel Drive, Onboard Communications System, Power Liftgate AND MORE KEY FEATURES INCLUDE: Leather Seats, Sunroof, ... 4/13/2019 ~ Scottsbluff, Nebraska ~ 0.0 mi.
Pre-Owned, 4x4 RTL 4dr Crew Cab, Beige interior, Gas, 15(city)/20(highwa­y) mpg, Auto 5 speed, V6, 3.50L. EPA 20 MPG Hwy/15 MPG City! Moonroof, Heated Leather Seats, Multi-CD Changer, Dual Zone A/C, Consumer Guide Recommended Pickup READ MORE KEY FEATURES INCLUDE: Leather Seats, Sunroof, 4x4, Heated ... 4/11/2019 ~ Scottsbluff, Nebraska ~ 0.0 mi.

system requires only 12 seconds to open or close.
anti-lock brakes, seat-mounted side SRS airbags and an AM/FM/CD player.
throughout the nation starting in late September.
absorbers, higher spring rates and a larger diameter front anti-roll bar.
a chrome band in each door handle and a white lens on the CHMSL.
-- Stormy Blue Mica and Highland Green Mica replacing two existing colors.
leather -- carry over from the MX-5 soft top.
Ontario, Canada, and in Mexico by Mazda Motor de Mexico in Mexico City.

Just what we do. It's powerful enough to do the job & a 3 week holiday hardly made a dent in the charge on a 5 AH battery. I suspect that other makes of cordless 18V tools will also do a small vacuum cleaner for a similar price.
We have a Challenger 530 - having moved on from a smaller 2 berth. The side diner is really useful & the extra acres of space around the kitchen makes it really comfortable to live in. Most importantly, SWMBO is really happy with it. We've spent a calendar month away in it, & any worries we might have had about choosing this layout vanished very quickly.
Chances of someone, who tows a boat on a trailer, reading a forum called "Caravan Talk"? Not too high.
On re-reading, I think you're right about that. Low down in the middle of the car is a good place to stow weighty items, even though I'm not too sure what would happen to it in the event of a crash.
If the van's spare wheel lives in the "empty spare footwell of the car" Where does the car's spare wheel live?
Toddler! Date of Birth: 1st April 1900.
Thanks for that. There's a list of questions which _must_ be answered, & I do dislike being forced to hand over personal details - especially when it looks like it's marketing who want to know everything about you.
We've put down a deposit on a new Challenger & I thought it would be a good idea to join Swift Talk. I wanted to read what owners of Swift vans liked and disliked about their vans, where snags can be found & if there are any common defects or problems. (Yes I can & do read what's posted here, but a dedicated forum might also be useful) Only, I can't. If you try to join Swift Talk there's a question you must answer before you're allowed to open an account. Caravan VIN - I don't have one & probably won't for a couple of months. I would like to raise this as a question on Swift Talk - but, obviously, I can't do that because. .. Can anyone on here, who is also in Swift Talk, take this up with them?
The OP didn't say they _had_ to find a new insurer. The only time you will find out how good your insurance is, is when you need to make a claim. Clearly they made a claim & were pretty unhappy with the result.
Different answers for different people in different situations. As our van is kept a few miles away, I bring the battery home & store it over the winter.
I had a Kojak a few years back. One month after the warranty ended, the hydraulic seals started to leak a bit - & then failed altogether. Purpleline didn't offer any repair, replacement or even advice on the problem.

I attended Lutheran Elementary School at St. Lucas, Milwaukee, where my father served as a pastor. My high school and college years were spent in Watertown, Wisconsin, at Northwestern Preparatory School and Northwestern College. I received my Master of Divinity from Wisconsin Lutheran Seminary in 1989.
I accepted a call to serve as pastor at St. Marcus on July 1, 2016. My pastoral ministry began in Salem, Oregon in 1989. In 1993 I began pastoring a church in Marietta, Ohio. From 1998 to 2016 I served as Professor of New Testament and Pastoral Theology at Wisconsin Lutheran Seminary in Mequon.
I have not found anything more rewarding than placing the gospel of Jesus Christ on the hearts of people. For that reason, I really love preaching and teaching the Word of God. A special thrill has been seeing "lights go on" in the eyes of people who have never considered the gospel seriously before. And the relationships that develop from serving as a group of Christians' spiritual shepherd are incredibly enriching. I love everything about being a pastor!
Leah and I were married on May 31, 1986 -- so that makes 30 years! The Lord blessed us with three daughters. Erin is 29 and married to Rev. Kyle Burmeister, lives in Summerville, SC, and has our only grandchild (at the moment), Maggie. Lauren is 26, married to Nathan Gartner, lives in Appleton, and is soon to deliver our second grandchild, a boy. Allison is 24, married to Martin Johnston, and lives in Thiensville.
Watching or playing sports. I'm a Milwaukee boy and have maintained an avid following of the Wisconsin sports teams. I love to play racquetball and have come to appreciate working out as something important for my physical and mental health. And whatever time Leah and I can have with our three married daughters and their families is special time indeed.
Any place where a house (preferably with a pool) can be rented with our family, and breweries and distilleries can be toured.
My tennis coach during senior year of high school was a young undergrad instructor by the name of Mark Jeske.

Headboards come with matching pipping and buttoning as standard. We can also work with a customer’s own fabric so get in touch through our bespoke option if you’d like to discuss this.
Bespoke: We work closely with local joiners to produce our headboards frames so we are more than happy to discuss bespoke commissions, we can help to design headboard shapes or advice on colour combinations as well as working to your own specific dimensions. Feel free to get in touch through the bespoke section of our website.

MARIKINA CITY – The Marikina City council is celebrating the Christmas season focusing on the city’s rich culture and heritage, its growing shoe and food industries, as well as the contributions of the family in its growth and development over the last three centuries.
“Founded nearly 400 years ago, Marikina City has weathered a number of challenges, thanks to the strength and the unity of its people – those who were originally from Marikina and those who decided to settle here and found kinship with the locals (or “taal na Marikeño” in Filipino),” the local government said in a statement.
The significance of unity will take the center stage in these festivals.
Dubbed as Experience Marikina, the local government has lined up numerous activities to celebrate its three major festivals in the last two months of the year: the Sapatos Festival, the Rehiyon, Rehiyon, and the Christmas Festival.
The city will also commemorate the 22nd year since it became a chartered city on December 8, 1996.
“United ang theme ng celebrations ng mga festival sa Marikina. Iyan ang vision ni Mayor Marcy na i-institutionalize ang lahat ng city events. So naging tagni-tagni siya in tune with the overall direction, which is to give emphasis and importance to family, culture, heritage, shoes, and food,” Winnie Mariano, city events manager, said in an interview.
Among the highlights of the Sapatos Festival will be the shoe bazaar that will run from November 12 to January 6 at the Freedom Park, right across the Marikina City Hall.
Over 50 manufacturers from Marikina will be selling their products – shoes, bags, belts, wallets, and other accessories at attractive prices.
Marikina is best known as the Shoe Capital of the Philippines because it was here where the first pair of shoes was made in 1887, paving the way for the inception of a vibrant shoe industry known for its high quality craftsmanship, durability, and comfort.
Rehiyon, Rehiyon Festival, on the other hand, will honor those who came from other places in the country and settled in the city, becoming Marikeños in the process as they successfully assimilated with the locals and absorbed their tradition, culture, heritage, values and ways of life.
Lastly, the Christmas Festival, which started with the installation of Christmas lights and lanterns on the riverbank, streets, parks and other places in Marikina, will feature a concert comprised of local artists and bands and ending with a fireworks display will be held on December 30 at the Marikina Sports Center.

DAYTON OH (Dec. 31, 2013) -- A season of bold new productions and cherished classics will be unveiled when Dayton Performing Arts Alliance announces its 2014-2015 New Horizons Ballet, Opera and Philharmonic season on New Year’s Eve at the Schuster Center. It’s all part of the New Year’s Eve Around the World celebration, one of three DPAA Signature Events this season that combined the talents of Dayton Ballet, Dayton Opera and Dayton Philharmonic.
Subscriptions for all nine New Horizons series go on sale Thursday, January 2, 2014, at 10 a.m. at Ticket Center Stage (888) 228-3630, www.daytonperformingarts.org and by visiting the ticket location inside the Schuster Center. Renewing subscribers will be given priority seating over new subscribers thru April 30. Single tickets go on sale to the public June 1.
The New Horizons season will be announced by DPAA’s three artistic directors Thomas Bankston, Dayton Opera; Karen Russo Burke, Dayton Ballet; and Neil Gittleman, Dayton Philharmonic. DPAA President and CEO Paul Helfrich will also be on stage for the celebratory performance that includes complimentary champagne at intermission and a balloon drop during the finale. The performance will end by 10:30 p.m. and tickets are still available.
On September 21 and 22, 2014, the New Horizons season opens with the spectacular Russian Panorama, the first Signature Event. Gittleman and the Dayton Philharmonic, along with opera singers and ballet dancers, perform excerpts from Tchaikovsky’s Eugene Onegin, Mussorgsky’s magnificent coronation scene from Boris Godunov as well as Rachmaninoff’s Vocalise and Borodin’s Polovtsian Dances.
The second Signature Event, Classical Destinations, marks the half-way point of the season at New Year’s Eve. Bizet’s opera The Pearl Fishers completes the season’s three Signature Events and again combines all three DPAA art forms.
Dayton Ballet Artistic Director Karen Russo Burke will team with DPAA Composer-in-Residence Stella Sung to create the World Premiere of an exciting new ballet in February 2015’s repertory production Creative Convergence. In March, Peter Pan will be performed for the first time with the full Philharmonic. The aptly named Ghost Stories repertory performance will begin the ballet’s season in October with Amy Seiwart’s Chasing Ghosts, the haunting Giselle Pas de Deux and a World Premiere by Dayton’s own DeShonna Pepper Robertson. The holiday family favorite The Nutcracker returns with nine performances, adding a performance on Monday, December 22, at 4:30 p.m.
Dayton Opera will bring Dead Man Walking to the Midwest for the first time in over a decade in February 2015. Jake Heggie’s opera is based on Sister Helen Prejean’s autobiographical account of her relationships with inmates on death row and the production will involve collaboration with The University of Dayton’s campus wide initiative Rites! Rights! Writes! Bankston recently returned from New York City where he conducted auditions for the new season’s productions of Mozart’s The Magic Flute, The Pearl Fishers and Russian Panorama.
Premier Health’s Classical Series starts and concludes with expansive, red-blooded Russian music when the series moves its Thursday evening performance to Friday. Saturday’s performance remains. Audiences will enjoy music inspired in or by America, France, Austria, Scotland, Argentina, and Britain. To honor the great English composer Benjamin Britten on his 100th Anniversary, Boston Pops Principal Conductor Keith Lockhart will conduct the War Requiem.
Audience-pleasing artists, both new and returning, will join the instrumentalists of Dayton Philharmonic Orchestra under the direction of Gittleman and Assistant Conductor Patrick Reynolds. In the Kettering Health Network SuperPops series, jazz great John Pizzarelli is back along with newcomers the Texas Tenors, Tiempo Libre and the DPO providing the musical score to the movie classic Singin’ In the Rain. The Rockin’ Orchestra Series includes headliners Indigo Girls and pays tribute to the music of Chicago, Elton John, Bruce Springsteen and The Beatles’ Rubber Soul and Revolver albums. Single ticket sales date for the Indigo Girls, if any remain after Rockin’ Series sales, will be announced at a later date.
The Philharmonic introduces its new Sunday Chamber Series featuring the stellar talents of DPO Concertmaster Jessica Hung, the DPO Principal Quartet, Dayton Opera Artists-in-Residence and the DPO Brass and Percussion sections. All concerts will be performed at the intimate Dayton Art Institute Renaissance Auditorium.
This is the last season for Graeter’s Symphony Sundaes with three upcoming Mozart concerts in January, March and April at the Dayton Masonic Temple. However, ticket buyers can enjoy their free scoop of raspberry chocolate chip and other ice cream flavors when Classical Connections moves from Friday evening to Sunday afternoon at the Schuster Center. Gittleman will continue the unique Connections format of performance and discussion with four programs, one each on composers Tchaikovsky (with guest violinist Chad Hoopes), Mahler, Shostakovich and Gubaidulina.
Popular seasonal events, including the DP&L Foundation Family Series’ PhilharMonster and SuperPops’ Hometown Holidays, will be joined by two special events: a Halloween rock and orchestral tribute to the music of The Rocky Horror Picture Show and the Christmastime performance of Handel’s Messiah at Westminster Presbyterian Church.
Subscribing to a series offers savings up to 23% over single ticket prices. Subscription for Dayton Ballet is $128 to $288 and Dayton Opera $132 to $321. DPO Classical 9 (which includes the Season Opening Spectacular Russian Panorama and a Wildcard ticket to any performance in the New Horizons season) is $108 to $450 and Classical 6 is $72-$321. Rockin’ Orchestra is $128 to $350, SuperPops $147 to $393, Classical Connections $43 to $138, and Chamber and Family Series are $48 to $80 each. Discounts are available for Seniors, Students, Educators and Military.

Hunt Emerson has drawn cartoons and comic strips since the early 1970s. He has published around 30 comic books and albums, mainly with Knockabout Comics (London), including Lady Chatterley's Lover, The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, Casanova's Last Stand, and Dante's Inferno. His latest book is Calculus Cat, a hilarious collection of stories about The Cat That Hates Television. He has been awarded UK Humorous Cartoonist of the Year and in 2000 he was chosen for inclusion in the exhibition "Les Maitres de la Bande Dessineee Europeenne" by the Bibliotheque Nationale de France and the CNBDI, Angouleme.

Okonomiyaki is a casual, fun dish that's quite popular with foreign visitors to Japan. It's basically a savory pancake made with seafood, pork, cabbage and other vegetables, cooked on a flat grill and dressed with mayonnaise and tangy sauce. The "okonomi" part of the name means "what you like," and customers can choose their own favorite ingredients to add to their pancakes. Many shops have customers cook their own okonomiyaki at the table.
This is a dish with very distinct regional variations. In Osaka-style okonomiyaki, all the component ingredients are mixed together in a bowl of batter, then spread out on the grill for cooking. The Hiroshima version is more complicated and takes longer to prepare, as the chef (not the customer) assembles distinct layers of toppings, vegetables, noodles, fried egg and pancake base into the final product.
Finally, there's a version called monjayaki, which is similar to Osaka style but with a thinner, runnier batter. Monjayaki is generally found only in the Tokyo area, particularly in the Tokyo Bay neighborhood of Tsukishima, which is home to dozens of monjayaki restaurants clustered together in one small zone.
If you're in a cook-it-yourself shop, once you've decided on your main ingredient (e.g. pork, shrimp or squid) and your optional fillings, the waiter will turn on the grill at your table, brush on some oil, and deliver a bowl with the batter and ingredients. Mix these together and pour the mixture onto the grill (once it's hot enough), then use a spatula to turn over your pancake when it's ready.
Note that this might take a bit longer than you would expect; ask your waiter for advice if you're not sure, or watch what other diners are doing. If there's an option for the waiter or chef to cook your okonomiyaki, you might want to take them up on their offer unless you're feeling adventurous.
If you're in a Hiroshima-style shop, the ordering process is a bit different - in addition to choosing ingredients like shrimp and squid, you'll generally have an option of either "soba" noodles (actually thin ramen-style wheat noodles) or thicker udon noodles. There may also be an option for no noodles at all. The chef will prepare your pancake and serve it on the grill in front of you. Cut the pancake into bite-size rectangles, and add extra sauce, mayonnaise and other condiments to taste as you eat.
The metal grill in an okonomiyaki restaurant is called a teppan, and menus will feature other foods prepared on the teppan grill, such as yakisoba (stir-fried ramen-style noodles with vegetables and sauce) and grilled seafood, vegetables and meat. Many shops have one large teppan grill with a counter surrounding it (a good place to watch the chefs in action), while others have separate grills at each table.
Often okonomiyaki restaurants will also prepare items individually on the teppanyaki grill.
Please turn (up/down) the flame.
Please turn off the burner.
Do you think this is done yet?

By Cecile Green and Rebecca Fisher-McGinty, republished and edited from Round Sky Solutions blog.
Enlivening Edge Magazine has republished Part 2 of this article here.
So many of us have experienced bad meetings ranging from mildly frustrating to intolerable! In fact, bad meetings are so common, it’s easy to assume they are an inevitable part of the status quo. If you have a small business, a nonprofit, board meetings, organizing meetings, a worker cooperative, or are interested in democratic or teal workplaces, you likely have to participate in meetings that drive you nuts for a variety of reasons. If so, you are in the right place, we wrote this post for you! In Part 1, we’re going to focus on some of the things that come up during these meetings and then part 2, we’ll share some solutions.
People getting offended and defensive.
People being accusatory and snide.
People disengaging during the meetings and at all times.
Updates that go on forever and are not helpful.
A few people that have too much responsibility.
Only a few people doing all the talking.
Well intentioned people delivering inconsistent accountability.
Agenda items that only reflect the needs of a few.
Agenda items that take way too long and don’t lead to meaningful outcomes that move things forward.
Meetings with no clear ending that drag on for hours.
Since bad meeting culture is so endemic it’s easy to think that it’s normal or unavoidable and I’m here to tell you that while it may be normal, meaning that it happens all the time in all kinds of organizations, it’s not healthy and it is entirely avoidable!
Saps organizational energy and focus. There’s nothing like an argument in the middle of a meeting for making everything worse.
Wastes time. Meetings are the most efficient way to sync up and align. When they are wasted with no clear decisions or next actions, people still have to obtain that information or risk doing bad or useless work. The work of obtaining that information outside of meetings represents a waste of time.
Sense of being stuck increases. It leaves people feeling powerless and frustrated leading to disengagement.
Underscores the sense of being overworked and underappreciated. When we don’t have good mechanisms for redistributing work because we can’t really see what other people are doing or not doing, it’s easy for people to feel unseen and unappreciated for their work.
Makes it harder to address important issues and get good work done. When meetings are wasted on conversations that go on way past any point of usefulness for the organization, the time we have to discuss and decide on important issues dwindles.
Getting to facilitating effective, collaborative meetings can be challenging but is well worth the effort. Imagine what it might be like for you to have a organization full of inspiring leaders, with tools that enable you to hack your meetings into flows and effective outcomes? Well, for one thing, improving your meetings will save you time and energy and open up the space for everyone on the team to be more of their full selves, which simply feels better, and frankly gets better results.
With a generative meeting culture, here are a few things you can look forward to, including what some of our clients and students have shared about our work!
Engaging and efficient collaboratively-led meetings. The power of joy and fulfillment that comes from productive efficient meetings goes on to infuse all of the work we do with that same motivating force, bringing much more meaning and productivity to everything that we do.
Working together productively with flow and satisfaction. Collaborating with others can be profoundly frustrating, and that frustration is a drain on both the organization and the individual. Getting to flow and satisfaction produces a host of benefits including longevity, in other words, people sticking around to contribute to an organization’s success.
Not getting stuck on issues. The feeling of being stuck in one’s work with others is corrosive, especially if it’s a consistent feature of meetings. Being able to move forward even on difficult issues is like opening the windows in a stale room and letting the light and air in.
Better innovation and problem solving. Working together is all about facing challenges and surmounting them with each other. Being equipped to do so efficiently, creatively, and innovatively is critical to organizational success in the complex and constantly changing business environments that we all find ourselves in today.
Mutual support & accountability. One of the biggest challenges of collaborative work environments where we are explicitly sharing power is accountability, both how we support each other in getting our work done, and how we hold each other accountable in the process.
A real distribution of power and voice. This one is huge! If you really want to get innovating and feel some meaningful engagement from your team, try giving them real power.
And the best part about learning all this is that you are going to be able to use these skills over and over again in all kinds of different contexts. It’s like you’ll have cracked the collaboration code and have super powers for enabling people to get along and do better work together.
Stay tuned for part 2 that will include 4 hacks and tangible tools to make your teal and democratically led meetings more effective and engaging.
Do you resonate with the challenges of collaborative meetings? Who hasn’t sat through a meeting that was poorly facilitated?? It can really put a damper on the work. That’s why we’ve created this online training to support and train collaborative facilitators to really hone in on what’s needed to get the work done in a collaborative and meaningfully inclusive way. And, meetings are such a big part of that.
Come learn more about this online collaborative management training and the community of practice we’re nurturing.
Sign up to explore leadership stories with others at the FREE community building introductory session on January 10th!
Enlivening Edge is an affiliate partner of Round Sky Solutions.
Featured Image from Round Sky Solutions.

Quite a few applied sciences permit digital paperwork to be signed. These embody digital signatures. Many states have legal guidelines governing digital signatures. The issue is that the State Digital Signature(s) legal guidelines should not uniform. The Nationwide Convention of Commissioners on Uniform State Legal guidelines and the American Regulation Institute promulgated the Uniform Electronics Act (UETA) in 1999. This act has been adopted, partly, by greater than forty states. A purchaser’s failure to object to phrases contained inside a shrink-wrapped software program bundle could represent an acceptance of the phrases – “it’s yours…you opened it, you keep it” – by conduct. This duty is supported and enforceable, in response to section-2 of the Uniform Industrial Code (UCC), the legislation governing gross sales contracts offers that any contract for the sale of products “may be made in any manner sufficient to show (agreement of/to terms offered) agreement, including conduct by both parties which recognizes the existence of a specified contract.”Offerees, distributors, retailers, and/or sellers who do enterprise by way of the Web can shield themselves in opposition to contract disputes and authorized legal responsibility by creating affords that spell out clearly the phrases that may govern their transactions. Ought to affords be accepted, essential phrases ought to at all times (or in any other case) be conspicuous and simply seen by on-line patrons.In just about each space of legislation, the usage of the Web to conduct enterprise actions had raised new authorized questions – or, extra usually, new variations on outdated questions. With respect to jurisdictions, that is actually true, and cited in The Fundamentals of Enterprise Regulation, authored by Roger Leroy Miller and Gaylord A. Jentz. “The bench is coming to some consensus regarding commerce cases before the courts that do not really fit into the categories and rules being developed by case law.” This level is the commerce clause in and of Interstate Commerce Rules, “Pro Tempore” (in the intervening time).An “E-Contract” is a contract that’s fashioned electronically. “E-Money” is pay as you go funds recorded on a pc or a card (akin to a wise card or a stored-value card – a present card). A “Destination Contract” is a contract for the sale of products wherein the vendor is required or approved to ship the products by provider and ship them at a selected vacation spot. The vendor assumes legal responsibility for any losses of harm to the products till they’re tendered on the vacation spot specified within the contract – underneath the auspices of Enterprise Regulation within the On-line World of Net Contracts and Jurisdiction.
Ought to a celebration (a number of individuals or entity) encounter contract difficulties or disputes, there are authorized steps accessible to launch a problem. Any one that is a celebration to a lawsuit has the chance to plead the case earlier than a trial courtroom after which an appellant courtroom, if he or she loses (earlier than not less than one degree of appellate courtroom), as cited within the statutes of enterprise legislation. Additionally, an announcement alleging the details obligatory for the courtroom to take jurisdiction – a short abstract of the details obligatory to point out that the plaintiff is entitled to a treatment, and an announcement of the treatment the plaintiff is in search of. Typically, the defendant or the lawyer for the protection will file a movement of “Expost Facto” (a statute of limitations or movement to erase). However the grievance and/or argument stays – “Resipsa Loquitur” (the details converse for themselves).All – in – all, the grievance and reply (and the counter declare and reply), taken collectively are known as the pleadings. The pleadings inform every social gathering of the opposite’s claims and specify the problems or disputed questions concerned within the case.So if you go operating to the PC to order that new stereo, tv, digital camera, cell-phone, kindle, Mitsubishi SUV, lap high, or garter belt…keep in mind – “Let the buyer beware!”You would possibly find yourself in courtroom – and nonetheless with No Cash.Til Subsequent Time.
Is It Doable To Determine an Nameless Blogger?

This comment was posted to reddit on Jul 10, 2018 at 10:59 am and was deleted within 15 minutes.
I dont have any midi to cv modules but i figured out that i could use my Minibrute as a sort of bridge between my DAW and my Eurorack. All i had to do was connect my minibrute to my daw (via usb) and it reads as a midi device. I then sent the midi sequence i wrote in my DAW to the minibrute which automatically converts it to cv/oct and gate outputs for my eurorack.
I used the MI Braids as my sound source for all 3 sequence patches and recorded them one by one(the viola bass patch is what is being played live). I used a lil bit of a sine wave lfo for the flute/clarinet patches to give the tremolo sound that those instruments naturally have. I also used some low pass filtering and fx processing with all 3 tracks.
Anyways, hope you dig it!

A vicious crime against humanity was once again wrought yesterday, the first of its magnitude on American soil. Our fear and rage are both inevitable and understandable; and it is indeed vitally important that those who prepared and executed the crime be brought to justice as soon as possible in an international court of law.
But it is incumbent on every peace-loving American citizen to stand up against the strident calls for massive retaliation, even when they come from elected officials and even after the perpetrators have been identified beyond question. Ideologically inspired terrorism cannot be suppressed by conventional military means, and in particular not by raining fire on the civilian populations of countries whose governments are thought to harbor or sponsor terrorists.
The cause of terrorist acts such as these is not a collective madness, religious fanaticism or "cowardice", but cold rational reflection by small numbers of exceptionally aggrieved and alienated people who are driven to desperation by perceived chronic injustices to which they can see no peaceable solution.
To really put an end to such acts, in addition to finding, arresting, prosecuting and incarcerating such people, we have got to tighten our belts and open our minds and hearts.
We need to pay a whole lot more attention to the terrible things that are happening day by day to people around the world than we have been in the habit of doing up to now; and we must join more wholeheartedly in the world-wide effort to eliminate human suffering and inequity, and broaden the realm of justice.
That is the work of spiritually centered thinkers, social activists and statesmen. It is not the work of soldiers.

Utility relocation that has been going on in Asheville’s River Arts District is being done in coordination with the City’s River Arts District Transportation Improvement Project (RADTIP).
When it comes to regional utility and communications firms, Asheville’s Public Works and Water Resources departments take a collaborative approach to the growth going in in Asheville.
Every six weeks, representatives from Duke Energy, NCDOT, PSNC, AT&T and the Metropolitan Sewerage District gather in the Public Works’ first floor conference room for the Infrastracture Task Force, where they trade information about upcoming projects with an ear toward efficiency opportunities.
Around the table, people talk how to do better project coordination and public notification.
Public Works developed a map that lists projects. The department then made that map available to these partner organizations.
That keeps crews from having to tear up the same portion of road two years in a row.
Projects that have benefited have included the River Arts District Transportation Improvement Project (RADTIP), the Cedar Street Bridge repair in east Asheville, annual road resurfacing and the Hendersonville sidewalk project.
“Economies of scale have been realized and maybe we can partner on who pays for resurfacing,” said Shuler.
With the bond projects over the next seven years, coordination is going to be even more critical. At the same time, Mission Hospitals have their towers under construction, and A-B Tech continues its growth, having just finished a building that incorporated new sidewalks.
So far, utility relocation in the River Arts District for RADTIP has been the most visible coordination effort, with PSNC and Duke Energy as primary partners. Look for more collaboration as the Infrastracture Task Force continues its work.
To keep abreast of traffic delays due to construction, check out the Waze app, which contains official permitted City of Asheville lane and road closures. The City partnered with the traffic app through its Concerned Citizens Program so residents could get information about where to expect traffic delays, especially around RADTIP.

CTI allows a computer to interact with the telephone, e.g. in setting up and terminating calls with numbers taken from a directory via a PC application.
The computer (e.g. a PC located at the same desk as the telephone) directly interacts with the telephone (First Party CTI).
The computer (could also be a co-located PC) interacts with the telephone system (e.g. SIP application server), and the latter controls the telephone: Third Party CTI.
Many OpenStage and optiPoint telephones are able to use CTI, like OpenStage 80 (Third Party) or OpenStage 40 T (First Party).
Mit CTI kann ein PC mit dem Telefon kommunizieren, z. B. zum Aufbau oder Beenden von Telefonverbindungen. Gewählt können die Rufnummern aus einem Adressbuch auf dem PC, z. B. Microsoft Outlook, werden.
Ein PC (z. B. ein Arbeitsplatzrechner neben dem Telefon) kommuniziert direkt mit dem Telefon (First Party CTI).
Ein Rechner kommuniziert mit einem Telefonsystem (z. B. SIP application server) und dieser steuert das Telefon (Third Party CTI).
Viele OpenStage- und optiPoint-Telefone sind fähig, CTI zu nutzen, z. B. OpenStage 80 (Third Party) oder OpenStage 40 T (First Party).
This page was last edited on 21 November 2013, at 12:21.

Residents can choose to pay for their accommodation by a refundable deposit or a daily payment.
You can also pay by a combination of both: (50% of refundable deposit + 50% of daily payments).
All rooms are furnished with high/low electric beds, floor to ceiling inbuilt wardrobes. All rooms have bedside tables with drawers and an overbed table. We encourage incoming residents to bring small amounts of furniture to make the rooms a little more familiar and homely.
These rooms are located close to the dining room and central lounge area promoting a relaxed atmosphere for the residents, with access to the sitting room and external courtyard. Several rooms are close to the nurses’ station offering security for residents with higher care requirements.
Each room also has a wall bracket and aerial point for a slim line television and telephone and data points, all rooms have access to the library/computer room and residents can enjoy this at their leisure.
These rooms are divided by screening to provide maximum privacy. They are generous in size and offer comfortable accommodation for couples wishing to remain together. These rooms are located close to the dining room and central lounge area promoting a relaxed atmosphere for the residents, with access to the sitting room and external courtyard.

Many favour Marangu route because it is the cheapest route to the mountain due to few numbers of days during climbing. Marangu route has been referred to as a Coca-cola route because there is no any challenge physical feature which might bring any difficult during climbing only the altitude can be a challenge on this route due to the few numbers of days for acclimatization but it is the only route which you have your accommodation in the Huts but only when you book in advance.
On our last day, we have a long trek mostly downhill through the tropical rainforest. Once at the park headquarters at Marangu gate, we collect our summit certificates. A vehicle will meet us here and drive us back to your hotel in Moshi/Arusha.
Your trekking company is able to pick you up from the airport and bring your to your hotel in Moshi, if needed. A transfer back to the airport can also be arranged.
The transport from Moshi to the gate of Kilimanjaro National Park is taken care off. This also applies to the way back.
Unless you are doing the Marangu Route, you’re staying in our strong and well maintained four season mountain tents. Every time you arrive at your camp the tent has already been set up.
On the Marangu Route you will be provided with a bed in one of the huts on the way to Uhuru Peak. There are 60 bunk beds each at Mandara and Kibo Huts, and 120 bunk beds at Horombo Hut.
Double layered mats provided by your trekking company will put you to sleep in no time.
Breakfast, lunch and dinner are prepared during the trek. Your trekking company is bringing their own cook. Don’t be surprised when you see an exclusive three course dinner on your plate.
During the trek you won’t have a shortage on drinking water.
Don’t expect an extensive shower, but there will be the possibility to use hot water for a decent wash.
The guides carry an altitude sickness kit to monitor your pulse rate, oxygen saturation and heart rate twice a day (very useful for monitoring the symptoms of altitude sickness (AMS) at altitude). Also emergency portable oxygen is carried along. On top of that the guides are qualified Wilderness First Responders.
The fees for the Kilimanjaro Rescue Team are covered. This is managed by KINAPA, Kilimanjaro National Parks. Interesting fact: Kinapa means “We carry each other” in Swahili.
The park entry fees, the crater fee, camping fee and value added tax are included in the price.
Per person you generally have a team of 1 guide, 1 cook and 3 porters who will support you in your climb. If you are part of a group of four, you will be able to enjoy 2 guides, 1 cook and 12 porters. Although there will always be enough hands on deck, the exact amount of support staff varies per trekking company.
Visas are required for all visitors, and cost about $50. For most nationalities it is possible to get a visa upon arrival when you arrive at the airport in Tanzania. Check with your local Tanzanian embassy or consulate to see what the requirements are.
The total amount is also exclusive of flights to and from Tanzania. To get an idea of which airlines are visiting Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA), it is best to have a look at their website.
Your international travel insurance is your own responsibility. It is important that your travel insurance also covers adventures at a high altitude. Discuss your itinerary with the insurance company before you travel to Tanzania.
Tips for guides and porters are exclusive. You decide what you want to tip, but be generous and read our blog post about tipping when you are planning go trekking in Tanzania.
Whether you stay in Moshi, Arusha or anywhere else, before and after the trek you have to take care of your own accommodation and meals.
While the intention is to stick to the described route, a certain degree of flexibility is built in. In some cases it may be necessary to change the route here and there. The mountains are full of surprises, and the weather on Mount Kilimanjaro is unpredictable. The guides continuously carry out risk assessments throughout the expedition. It is therefore best to plan a number of extra days in Tanzania to cover for possible unforeseen circumstances. Read all about altitude sickness here.
Unless you are choosing the Marangu Route, you will be staying in durable tents that are equipped for all weather situations. A few porters will always trek ahead of you to make sure that your tent is ready when you arrive. There will also be tables and chairs. Accommodation comes with freshly prepared meals. Every campsite has a long drop toilet. Along the trek you can find your private space behind a rock. Read all about camping on the Kilimanjaro here.
Do you reach Uhuru Peak or not? There is a chance that you won’t. Often this depends on the unpredictable weather on the mountain. However, it can also depend on your own physical condition.
Do you enjoy hiking, have you gone trekking at higher altitudes and do you exercise twice a week on average? With a little extra training, you are soon fit to challenge Mount Kilimanjaro.
Is this the first time that you are trekking at altitude? Make sure you are well prepared. This is important for your safety, but also for that of your team. Make sure you start six months in advance with an hour’s walk or hike twice a week. Read this blog post and get fit for your Kilimanjaro ascent.
Trekking in Kilimanjaro requires decent gear. Especially the basics like an 80-90l backpack and quality trekking socks. Also make sure to check our ultimate packing list for trekking Kilimanjaro.
– Duffel bag, (waterproof recommended) for porters to carry your equipment.
Because Mount Kilimanjaro covers a relatively large surface area and a lot of elevation, the mountain has more or less its own climate. Responsible for the weather patterns around Mount Kilimanjaro are trade winds that bring along moist from the Indian Ocean. Because of these trade winds, the months of March, April, May and November are the wettest. The southern mountain slopes are especially rainy in these months. From January to March there is a greater chance to see snow on and around the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro. This can be experienced as negative, but it will any case be much quieter on the trails. Although these are the coldest months, snowfall and cold temperatures can be expected from December to May. The most suitable and most popular season for climbing Kilimanjaro is from June to October. In these months you can choose any route without having to worry about rain too much. If you want a comfortable route during the rainy season, you best choose the Rongai Route, approaching Kilimanjaro from the North. Due to the differences in altitude and the associated climate zones, it is difficult to estimate the temperatures.
Trekking on Kilimanjaro is hard, both for yourself and your support staff. Per person you have a team who will support you in climbing Mount Kilimanjaro. This team usually consists of a guide, three porters and a cook. This way you don’t have to carry your full gear yourself. The guide speaks English and usually the rest of the team speaks English as well. You can make things more interesting by learning a few words of Swahili in advance.
Bookatrekking.com strives to only work with providers who treat porters in a fair manner. Without porters, there is no trekking on Kilimanjaro. They are the heart and soul of your adventure and every day, they carry part of your gear. Bookatrekking.com always tries to find a balance between an affordable trekking adventure and the fair treatment of porters. Read everything about porters on Kilimanjaro here.
It is impossible to climb the Mount Kilimanjaro solo. This means that every climber has his or her own team. Both the guide, the assistant guide, the porter and the cook expect a tip. For the whole trek, this sums up to an amount ranging from USD 330 to USD 450. This is per climber, which means that the amount will not be smaller if the group is larger. Be generous. Read our extensive blog about tipping on Mount Kilimanjaro.
The currency of Tanzania is the Shilling. We recommend you bring US dollars or Euros to cover the costs of your visa, extra travel, and other. It is easiest to travel in Tanzania with US dollars, but credit cards are also accepted in most places. Before you travel, check with your bank whether your credit or debit card can also be used in Tanzania.
Visa are required for all visitors, and cost about $50. It is possible to get a visa-on arrival when you arrive at the airport in Tanzania. Look here at the website of the embassy for arranging your visa.
Tanzania is an area where yellow fever occurs and therefore we recommend you to be vaccinated. We also recommend that you have all other vaccinations such as Tetanus, Diphtheria, Polio and Hepatitis A & B up to date. Malaria is present in Tanzania but there are no mosquitoes at high altitude. Always consult your health professional 90 days ahead of departure.
Huts but only when you book in advance.

The symposium presents design thinking as an alternative approach to conduct research and develop ICT-based participatory tools for learning in a variety of settings. The integration of ICT in teaching and learning, as well as its support to participatory practices, is defined as a wicked problem that can be best approached through the adoption of a design mindset. In this regard, this symposium presents 4 papers that explore ways to use design thinking and ICT in three different levels: (1) education policy-making, (2) facilitating participation in education (3) design of tools and methods that foster reflection about teaching and learning. The four papers presented in the symposium can be considered as use cases in which design thinking has been used to develop new services, tools and practices.

I believe that focusing on your health and mental health is one of the most important things a person can do. I did. Now I'm in debt.
I started getting sick in September 2017. I decided to take charge of my health, including my mental health. I got a new PCP. I was referred to seven different specialists. I have had tests upon tests. I have had surgery. I have been put on several medications. I have insurance (thank God). The co-pays and medical bills are piling up. I'll have to get a job or two to keep up.
I'm about 4k in medical debt. If you could participate in this campaign, I would genuinely appreciate it.

Principal Neheli earned a Bachelor of Arts Degree with a major in Sociology at McMaster University, Hamilton Canada. She went on to receive a Bachelor of Education at Brock University in St. Catharines, Canada and subsequently a Master of Education in Special Education at the University of Toronto. Ms. Neheli holds numerous certifications in special education and is an advocate for individuals on the autism spectrum.
Her career in teaching has given her the opportunity to teach in the primary, junior, intermediate and senior divisions. She has years of experience in Ontario Canada as principal of elementary and secondary schools.
Ms. Neheli has brought this wealth of knowledge and experience to Providence Elementary. Her belief that all children can learn and all teachers are essential factors in that process is sure to benefit our community.

For about as long as I can remember going to the gaming store, I remember seeing little bags with Cheapass Games on the side. They were a couple bucks each, and they were just fun, little games you could play in-between bigger games. I'd played a few over the years, but I never really realized just how many of those games there were. Now, Cheapass is running a Kickstarter campaign for an anthology of their products.
In the summer of 1996, James Ernest began his quest to bring happiness and joy to all the people of the world, by creating clever tabletop games and selling them really cheap. He named his company Cheapass Games, and we're still going today.
Since that first year, we have released more than 100 original games: card games, board games, dice games, free games, and more.
Cheapass Games in Black and White is a collection of all of our black and white games, with the rules and histories of favorites like Kill Doctor Lucky, Lord of the Fries, Button Men, and many others. It also has many more obscure games, like Escape from Elba, Pennywise, Dogfight, and The Lost Pueblo of Doctor Green, and a few prototypes and unreleased games you've never heard of.
If you're a fan of Cheapass Games, an aspiring game designer, or just interested in the history of the company, read on.
The campaign's more than 2x funded with still 28 days to go.

Work 1: “Sunspot”, Sun and Reflection project in the main atrium’s roof light.
The atrium is the school’s central space,- a “maelstrom” of pupils that move around and up and down the various floors. The space is experienced as living and varied because of the changes in daylight and the seasons. “Sunspot” is a shape on the glass roof, inspired by gas explosions, and placed according to calculations of the sun’s movement. When the sun is shining, the spot will spiral down in the rotunda, all the way to the ground floor floor and then spiral back up again(in relation to the path of the sun).
It contributes to visualising the movement in this space, but at a completely different pace to the other users. Each day it with be slightly different from the preceding one.
The title of this project was originally its working title, but I decided to keep it. It is slightly humoristic and a bit pedagogical since what one sees through these objects is like being on the inside of a pair of eyes. One gets association of entering the mouth of a large fish or whale.
The work is made up of a Fresnel lens on the outside(towards the outside) making the world turn upside-down or distort faces close-up. A mirrored tube runs through the wall and that distorts even more, and on the inner walls are large circular surfaces that have ‘running’ lights around the edge and a changing circle of colour like an iris. On the inside there are also lenticular films that diffuse the view depending on how one moves through the vestibule.
LED-programming and technology delivered by Jarle Henriksen.

Sugar And Our Kids: Are We Doing Enough?
When my son eats a major sugar bomb, like a piece of cake at a birthday party, I can see his mood change. His generally sweet and cooperative disposition shifts to one of a fired up wild child, which is soon followed by a crash of energy and crankiness. His ability to follow directions, typically a positive trait for my son, wanes as a result as well.
Watching this outwardly behavioral roller coaster is like tracing the steps of sugar’s overt and undeniable physiological impact on my son. The sugar is sending signals and triggering reactions in his young and developing mind and body.

What’s the difference? Great question. There’s probably an official answer but honestly to me they’re the same thing. The only difference is the type of pan you make it in. But honestly, you can make any tart recipe into a pie and any pie recipe in to a tart. So whether you want to call this a pie or a tart, I’m ok with either.
I took this to a potluck and I think I called it a pie. But now that I think about it, I made it in a tart pan so it should be called a tart. A tart sounds fancy, doesn’t it?
Pie sounds homey. Tart sounds regal. I’m ok with fancy business, but let’s be honest, I’m not a fan of expensive. My tart pan was $2.50 at the Good Will. I wanted to keep this dessert low budget too. I went to the store and looked for the cheapest fruit available. That’s my strategy because generally the cheapest fruit is in season.
Nectarines were $0.50/lb. So awesome. It took about $1.50 worth of fruit to make this tart. Beautiful and frugal. I’m into it.
Prepare pie crust by combing flour, sugar and salt. Using your fingers, break the butter into the flour mixture until it resembles very coarse crumbs (even pea sized is fine). Add ice water and bring it all together into a ball using your hands. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate a few hours. You can make this up to two days in advance (or much longer and freeze it).
Once the dough has rested enough (a few hours or days), roll out and place into a 9 inch fluted tart pan (this will also work in a pie dish). Place in freezer while you make the filling and topping.
Dice nectarines (leave the skin on) and combine with sugar, flour, cinnamon and rum. Set aside and make the topping. In a bowl, combine ingredients for filling. Using your fingers, work ingredients together (feel free to add more pistachios if you’d like) until the texture of coarse crumbs.
Now assemble tart. Place nectarine filling into prepared tart pan. Top with crumble topping. Lay a few thin pats of butter over the top. Bake for about an hour and a half, or until filling is bubbling and top is golden.
Allow to cool completely. Serve and enjoy!
For some reason I’m thinking plum pie needs to happen sometime soon, because I never see plums in a pie.
What’s your favorite fruit pie? If you have an awesome recipe, share it in the comments!
Good call on the dollop of yogurt. Normally, I’d be all for ice cream but yogurt sounds amazing too!
I love nectarines. I use them in recipes that call for peaches. I made an apple crumble last week. Nectarines would be good in place of apples too, I think!
That sounds absolutely delicious, will be giving it a go. And I always think a pie has a lid and a tart doesn’t but I don’t know if that’s the official difference!

US job growth likely rebounded in October, with wages expected to have recorded their largest annual gain in 9-1/2 years, pointing to further labour market tightening that could encourage the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again in December.
The Labour Department’s closely watched monthly employment report on Friday is also expected to show the unemployment rate steady at a 49-year low of 3.7 per cent.
Sustained labour market strength could ease fears about the economy’s health following weak housing data and stalling business spending, reports Reuters.
Payrolls rose by 134,000 jobs in September, the smallest gain in a year, after Hurricane Florence drenched North and South Carolina, weighing on restaurant and retail employment.
But the anticipated bounce back in job growth is likely to be tempered some what by Hurricane Michael, which struck the Florida Panhandle in mid-October.
“The employment report should help calm some concerns that the economy is slowing more quickly than it really is, the economy is really in good shape,” said Ryan Sweet, a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics in Westchester, Pennsylvania.
Average hourly earnings are forecast rising 0.2 per cent in October after advancing 0.3 per cent in September. This would boost the annual increase in the wages to 3.1 per cent, the biggest gain since April 2009, from 2.8 per cent in September.
Strong annual wage growth would mirror other data published this week showing wages and salaries rising in the third quarter by the most since mid-2008. Hourly compensation also increased at a brisk pace in the third quarter.
Firming wages support views that inflation will hover around the Fed’s 2.0 per cent target for a while. The personal consumption expenditures price index excluding the volatile food and energy components has increased 2.0 per cent for five straight months.
The Fed is not expected to raise rates at its meeting next Wednesday, but economists believe strong labour market data could see the US central bank signal an increase in December. The Fed raised borrowing costs in September for the third time this year.

Presented by Workplace Safety and Prevention Services (WSPS), this relevant and informative session will provide an overview of the new cannabis legislation. Employers will gain a better understanding of the implications and risks involved with the new regulations and will discuss next steps to consider as they navigate the changes. This session is being held in partnership with the Skills@Work program at Georgian College Career & Employment Community Services. Light refreshments will be provided.

Golden Gate University offers a unique experience for graduate students across the country. We offer a variety of options for instruction to best suit all of our candidates, so every student can feel like they are working up to their potential. With an array of specialized instruction, online education, and accelerated degree programs, GGU gives students the flexibility to attend school full time or part time, in person at one of our teaching centers or even 100% online. We also provide top-tier career placement services and a variety of alumni network perks, so we continue to work with our graduates long after they receive their degrees.
GGU offers a variety of instruction options to best suit all of our graduate students, so they can work up to their potential.
Returning to school is convenient at Golden Gate University. Here's all you need to know in order to get started in a degree or certificate program.
If you would like to begin or advance a career in business, taxation, accounting, or psychology, we invite you to explore our degrees and certificates.
GGU is an official Military Friendly School® and has been a proud member of the Yellow Ribbon Program since its inception in August 2009.
About 17% of GGU students are international coming from more than 50 countries. GGU is dedicated to helping our international students from start to finish from application to graduation.

How long does it take the flu to evade a vaccine?
With all the recent Presidential attention to the threat from the H5N1 Avian Flu, and the many billions now earmarked for stockpiling vaccines and drugs, it seems like a good idea to ask on what time scale the virus might be able to evade these countermeasures. Vaccination is of particular interest, as it is regarded as by far the best tool to combat viral infection at the population level.
Genomic analyses of H5N1 isolates from birds and humans showed 2 distinct clades with a nonoverlapping geographic distribution. All the viral genes were of avian influenza origin, which indicates absence of reassortment with human influenza viruses.
Genetic and antigenic analyses have shown that, compared to previous H5N1 isolates, 2004-2005 isolates share several amino acid changes that modulate antigenicity and perhaps other biological function. Furthermore, our molecular analysis of the HA from isolates collected in 2005 suggests that several amino acids located near the receptor-binding site are undergoing change, some of which may affect antigenicity or transmisibility.
Despite the recent "Isolation of drug-resistant H5N1 virus," (Nature, 20 October 2005), the WHO Global Influenza team determined that recent isolates are "sensitive to 2 neuraminidase inhibitors that are recommended for prophylactic or therapeutic intervention against human infections." So obviously the specific details of which viral isolate one is working with determine its sensitivity to drugs. In the case of the drug-resistant strain, it was isolated in February 2005 from a Vietnamese girl who may have contracted the virus while she cared for her brother. Human-to-human transmission is supported by the girl's lack of contact with poultry and the fact that the neuraminidase gene from virus isolated from the girl was virtually identical to that isolated from her brother. Thus there are evidently drug resistant strains running around in the wild.
As far as I can tell, it just isn't yet clear how fast drug-resistance traits can spread. There is now at least a little data about how long it takes a particular viral strain to find work-arounds for vaccines. A recent initial effort to sequence many flu strains in parallel indicates that mutations that provide ways around vaccines can rapidly dominate a population of flu viruses.
Perhaps the most dramatic finding in our data is the discovery of an epidemiologically significant reassortment that explains the appearance, during the 2003-2004 season, of the 'Fujian/411/2002'-like strain, for which the existing vaccine had limited effectiveness. ...Phylogenetic analysis of 156 H3N2 genomes from our project revealed the clear presence of multiple, distinct clades circulating in the population. Through a reassortment event, a minor clade provided the haemagglutinin gene that later became part of the dominant strain after the 2002-2003 season.
This finding illustrates not only that the influenza virus population contains multiple lineages at any given time, but also that alternate, minor lineages can contribute genetic variation to the dominant lineage, resulting in epidemiologically significant, antigenically novel strains. It is worth emphasizing that our sequence-based sampling approach--in contrast to traditional serologically based sampling--will reveal co-circulating strains even before they become antigenically novel.
In other words, the authors assert that amongst viruses that we give the same name there is considerable variation that may be hard to distinguish using traditional techniques. Sequencing the genomes of many isolates can provide a map of how a population of viruses is changing in response to vaccines. Ghedin, et al., note that their work demonstrates significant change of the dominant flu strain even within the 2003-2004 flu season. That variation appeared to originate and then dominate the population of viruses within 12 months.
Which brings me to the core of this post, namely that we now have real-world data demonstrating that flu viruses can escape vaccines in less than a year, far shorter than the time it takes to produce significant quantities of effective vaccines. It is important to note that this is a different problem than producing a new vaccine for new annual flu strains every year. If a pandemic strain emerges, our problem is not planning ahead just far enough to deploy a vaccine for next year's strain, but rather to combat a strain already killing people worldwide. It took most of a year for the CDC and Sanofi to come up with a hypothetical H5N1 vaccine, and the new National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza contains the expectation of years to accumulate enough vaccine to be useful for large populations. Never mind that the existing whole virus vaccine may not be effective against a pandemic strain.
The fact that the minor Fujian-like clade has donated its HA to the previously dominant strain rather than itself becoming the dominant circulating virus indicates that there may be important amino acid co-substitutions in the other proteins essential for viral fitness.
...Even within a geographically constrained set of isolates, we have found surprising genetic diversity, indicating that the reservoir of influenza A strains in the human population -- and the concomitant potential for segment exchange between strains -- may be greater than was previously suspected.
We cannot think of the H5N1, or any other strain, as either a clonal population experiencing selection or as a bunch of individuals producing descendants that may accumulate mutations leading to a pandemic strain. Rather, flu viruses exists as elements of a population that appear to be constantly innovating and trading parts. This is a critical distinction, particularly in light of rapid human and avian intercontinental travel. Not only have we now learned that there is greater variation in any given set of geographically linked isolates, but because of human travel we can expect all kinds of novel parts to show up in populations that were otherwise isolated and appeared to be of no immediate threat.
The Ghedin paper doesn't necessarily teach us directly about the evolution of pandemic flu strains, but it does suggest our current plan for pandemic vaccination is not well suited for the problem at hand.
After studying synthetic vaccines for Bio-ERA, amongst other clients, I think DNA vaccines are the best bet for rapid response on a time scale shorter than flu strains seem to evolve. I've a draft paper on synthetic vaccines in for consideration at Biosecurity and Bioterrorism, and will shortly embark on another paper specifically about distributed manufacture of DNA vaccines. PowderMed is waiting for publication of their (already accepted) first paper on their plasmid vaccine for the annual flu and will be starting trials of an H5N1 DNA vaccine early next year. Unfortunately, it seems the folks in DC aren't taking this technology seriously, and instead blowing billions on developing cell culture production of whole virus vaccines. Even the folks who manufacture vaccines in cell culture acknowledge this will only cut a month or two off the response time.

When it comes to gifting your beloved parents with flowers, you do not have to physically travel miles to gift it to them personally if you live in another city. There are credible flower delivery websites that give you the chance to order flowers online and send them fresh flowers as a symbol of your love and appreciation. With these sites, you effectively can make them feel special and wanted on any special occasion when you are not here to wish and be with them.
Now if you are sending anniversary flowers to your parents, you might surprise them by looking at their wedding photographs and choosing the flowers that were present in them. The best thing about online websites that sell flowers is that you will find a wide array of them on a single platform. These sites are much more convenient than walking into a store and finding out that the flowers that you want are not available. This, of course, can become very disappointing and frustrating.
If you want to gift your parents some special flowers that have a unique charm and appeal, choose flowers that have vines on them. These flowers can be grown indoors for a while, and you can later place them outdoors. Some unique examples of flowers that you can grow on vines are morning glory, clematis, and sweet peas. If your parents are celebrating their 30th anniversary, you may consider gifting them with morning glory. There are several flower delivery Canada websites that will give you fresh flowers that you may order and send to your beloved parents.
Now, if your parents are holding an anniversary party and you have been invited to it, gifting flowers that go with the theme is indeed a great idea. When it comes to placing orders for flowers and bouquets, it is essential for you first to determine your budget. It is crucial for you to be aware of what you can afford when you are buying flowers for your parents. If you are aware of the theme of the anniversary party, it is vital for you to work within this color scheme. The flowers that you choose will give the place a custom look.
Last but not the least, when it comes to buying flowers for your parents, ensure that you consider the season. Seasonal flowers are widely available, and you do not have to spend extra money to buy them. Remember when it comes to some of the flowers that you or your parent might like, they are not available around the year. For instance, violet is a flower available in winter. Therefore, when you are buying flowers for your parents ensure which ones are available for the season and get hold of fresh flowers of that month. This will help you arrange fresh flowers for any party or occasion and save money as you do not have to pay extra to procure off seasonal flowers that need to be procured if they can search by flower selling websites!

“So, did the cleaning lady come?” I asked him.
A cleaning lady refused to clean my house! (So, it is true. You really do have to clean your house before the cleaning lady arrives.) I would have happily paid her $100 for four hours worth of work, but she rejected me and my money. Furthermore, she cost herself a customer because I will never again call her and offer her work.
I am mortified and mystified that my kitchen and bathroom were deemed too big of a job for one person to handle in four hours.
That’s nutty! I could clean my whole house in four hours if I really put my mind to it–BY MYSELF! Sheesh…sounds like you found a cleaning lady that’s SPOILED!
I wonder what her house looks like – my aunt was a cleaning lady, and although her clients’ homes were spotless, hers has always been in a bit of chaos.
Most of the cleaning people around here require this same “first time” fee. Our house was, quite literally, brand new when we hired a cleaning lady. It had been built just two weeks before we moved in. Still, nearly everyone we interviewed also wanted a first clean fee….If you have the time to look around, you can probably find someone who won’t charge it. We eventually did, though ours really, geuinely didn’t require it.
you are too funny! and while i realize that children totally send our lives into disarray, i also know you…neat as a pin.
i am so sure she couldn’t clean your kitchen and bathroom! ridiculous lady!
I just hired a cleaning lady and your story was my worst fear. So, before she came by to give us an estimate, I felt like I had to CLEAN my house for the cleaning lady. How warped is that?
Ours did charge us about $30 more for the first visit, where they do a deep clean. I can understand that though as things like my windows and blinds have rarely been cleaned and I won’t even go into my lighting fixtures. When you don’t have a maid there are just things you don’t find time to do (at least I don’t).
It sounds like this maid might have been a little high-maintenance though. Maybe you can find another who isn’t so picky. When I walked around with my new one and told her I’d make sure the kids toys were picked up, she kind of chuckled like she was thinking that’s not necessary…so who knows what they expect really!
I’ve never heard of such a thing. And no way would I ever consider seeing how much it would be to clean MY house! Yikes!
wow… that is super lame!
Remind me never to hire a cleaning lady!
I clean houses for a living. I do not charge extra the first time I go. It is easier and I get it done faster if people just pick up any clutter that may be around. Since I don’t live there, i would not know where it goes to put it away. That is the only thing I like people to do before I clean, otherwise they are doing my job, and what is the point? I usually clean 2 bathrooms, kitchen, family room, dining room, bedrooms in three or four hours. Three hours, I charge 50.00, 4 hours is 70.00. I do extra stuff all the time, like windows, blinds, I have cleaned basements, moved furniture, power washed outside patios, you name it. LOL I have loyal customers, and I am good to them back.
People are LAZY. They want something for nothing. I used to clean houses for a living. I enjoyed it most of the time. $100 for cleaning a kitchen, dining room and what did you say, a bathroom? I can’t remember. I could have cleaned your whole home for $100 and four hours, give or take a few minutes. People really are lazy I tell you.
And whoever said that her aunt cleaned houses and hers was a wreck – I knew a girl like that. She was a sloppy cleaner too. I on the other hand had a neat and tidy home until I had baby number 3. And it goes downhill from there on many a day now.
OMG! I could get my daughter to clean it for less.
I hate cleaning ladies. There is no end to the trouble they have caused me. Go Mel! Good job for cleaning your own stuff.
egads! One would have thought she could have at least TRIED!
I’m hoping Karen (above) lives in Oklahoma City. I could use her!
I want someone to pick up the clutter.
That doesn’t take much time at all.
Oh, why do I love clutter so much?
That seems like a mighty high hourly rate for a cleaning lady. Mine charges $13/hour. Two of them come and clean my large house with 4 bathrooms in 2 1/2 hours. $65 for clean house. Best investment ever made.
I’m with Judy…I love clutter too much, too, tho it drives me crazy. I once was a cleaning lady, when my kids were little and in school. I cleaned the houses of several people in my church whenever I was needed…part-time and not every week, but the extra $50 came in handy when it was time to buy shoes for the kids or whatever. Boy, even without ‘snooping’, it’s amazing what you learn about other people’s lives. But one thing I was was discreet and I never talked about anything I saw or learned in anyone’s home. People trusted me, and word-of-mouth kept me busy. I cleaned houses without a speck of dust in them…I cleaned absolute MESSES! All in a day’s work. Back then, we ladies charged $10 per hour…I can’t imagine what the going rate is now.
A cleaning lady who wouldn’t clean? she’s in the wrong business! I have a great cleaning lady, she comes every 3 weeks. She’s reasonable, she’s good and trustworthy. The good ones ARE out there.
I’m Lisa, btw, I found my way over from Kellans.
Keep looking- not all cleaning ladies are this way. My mom cleans houses and has a very loyal customer base, they actually do what they can just to keep her. She is purely word of mouth and has more people calling than she can keep up with. She will do a first time walk through and discuss what they want done, what she can get done in that time and a set amount and what day works. She requires them to declutter and be out of the house when she comes- people get in the way and slow her down. Most people like this because it helps keep them organized and not fall behind week to week. She is efficient, picky and knows her stuff. She will tell people what kind of cleaning supplies work best, they purchase that kind. She has even been asked to pick out someones new vacuum- she likes that because she’s used so many different ones that she knows which work best and which have no suction…..anyways, hope your search goes better.
Karen, would you consider relocating to Nebraska? lol My house is a disaster. Between having a chronic illness and a full time job – my house is a disaster. I feel like I can’t afford a cleaning lady. Besides the clutter in place would choke a horse!
LOL I have helped pick out one of my customers new vacuums as well. Somebody mentoned nobody would to clean their house because it was an older farm house, yesterday I cleaned a farm house that is close to 100 years old. They have three dogs running around. LOL They are good people and I love cleaning for them. Good cleaning help is hard to find, but we are out there! I have become friends with all of the people I clean for. Also Mel, I cannot imagine walking into somebody’s house and not even attempting to clean it. That is rude, and very unprofessional. She could have at least tried to do as much as she could in that time period. Sorry you had such a bad experience.
about Atonement – haven’t seen the movie, but the book was great!

BEST SHINING MOMENT: Doggedly making his way through the fields of France to Dunkirk, holding on to the hope that he will be reunited with his true love.
MOST INTENSE MOMENT: Confronting Briony when she comes to Robbie and Cecilia’s flat to atone for lying about him to the police.
In the Joe Wright 2007 movie of the novel Robbie is played by very nicely James McAvoy. Here are some highlights from the film….
This entry was posted on Sunday, December 22nd, 2013 at 2:19 am	and tagged with Atonement, Ian McEwan, James McAvoy and posted in James McAvoy, postaday, Secondary Character.	You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.

Across the world,RE/MAX means real estate success. And much of that reputation can be attributed to the network’s commercial professionals. Commercial practitioners typically join RE/MAX upon entering the strongest phase of their careers. They have the experience,knowledge and independence that translate into client relationships built on trust.
When it’s time for you to buy,sell,lease or otherwise restructure your property interests,the options can seem endless. And the amount of information needed to make a wise decision can be overwhelming.
RE/MAX Commercial professional’s experience and knowledge will enable you to clearly and quickly identify a course of action that delivers maximum value to your company or to your individual portfolio.
Regardless of your needs,there are RE/MAX Commercial practitioners who have the skills and experience to find the best strategy –whether you’re looking at a straight forward local transaction or a top-notch team to handle multiple-site acquisitions or dispositions across the globe.

This house replaced an old building that had suffered greatly over the years. It contains a number of highly efficient features in a relatively traditional package. Walls that are 12 inches thick with cellulose insulation produces a remarkably energy-efficient shell, for example.
The goal was to design a large house that still fit into the context of the “village “ community. The varied roofs provided volume, while keeping the style harmonious with the rest of the neighborhood.
We designed the kitchen to include a breakfast nook “bump out,” allowing for lots of light in both the kitchen and eating area.
Since the kitchen is the heart of the home, we expanded the space to include an informal sitting area and fireplace, as well as a connected screened-in porch. The open design creates specific areas that work together — and accentuates the kitchen as the center of social activity.
A traditional, formal living room is located at the front of the house. The bay windows here are echoed in the breakfast nook.
Located in the heart of Munjoy Hill, this house was renovated from top to bottom and esentially reframed from the inside. The interior was opened up and reconfigured.
The original staircase had a beautiful curving design that was common when the house was built. However, the original floorplan hid the stairway and buried it into a dark hallway.
The fence marks the line between the public and private parts of the yard. It is also where the house transitions from the original exterior design to a more mordern look.
The major challenge of this building was its long, narrow shape. We carefully considered the creative placement of travel paths between the front and back of the house.
This is the entrance to the master bedroom, located at the rear of the second floor.
This house was completely renovated and updated with all new systems throughout, while maintaining the original character of the house. The entry and kitchen were opened up and expanded.
The kitchen and the entry to the house were opened up and expanded.
The new kitchen is flooded with lots of natural light.
We reconfigured the kitchen to create two large openings that connect it to the living space in the middle of the house. The result is a more open feeling and more natural light.
The challenge was to take a very plain, boxy two-unit apartment building and transform it into something visually interesting, while working within very specific spatial confines. The introduction of a “tower” helped to break up the ordinary lines of the building, without breaking zoning laws. The tower also houses a beautiful spiral staircase, which dramatically changed the interior as well.
There was only one balcony in the original plan, but now each unit has its own private balcony. Subtle angles and clean lines add a modern twist to the entire building.
The rooftop deck is an addition that offers views of Munjoy HIll and Cousins Island — and another space to entertain and socialize.

With its beautiful beaches, it's no wonder so many tourists flock to Long Beach Island every summer and why so many never want to leave. I certainly understand the feeling, I've lived on Long Beach Island for over 20 years after spending my summers here as a child and it's why I love helping people buy or sell Long Beach Island NJ real estate.
My name is Laura Dunlap and for years I have helped people buy or sell homes right here in Long Beach Island. Those who know Long Beach Island know that each neighborhood has its own distinct personality. To help people find the right home here, an agent has to know the area just as much as she know her clients. And I make it my mission to get to know the people I work with as well as I know Long Beach Island, the place I know and have been calling home for most of my life. It is my in-depth knowledge of the Long Beach Island communities that makes me more than just a real estate agent, but a partner in helping people buy the house of their dreams or sell their existing property quickly and for the right price. For each of my clients, I promise to work hard, stay in touch, keep them informed, offer honest advice through the entire process, and negotiate the best deal possible.
So whether you're looking to buy or sell Long Beach Island NJ real estate, Manahawkin NJ real estate, or Beach Haven NJ real estate, I would love to help. It could very well be the only thing I love more than the beautiful community that we call home. Contact me today to get started buying or selling Long Beach Island real estate.
Long Beach Island is calling. Can you hear it? With the sound of every crashing wave, another memory is made—another memory, in your new home in Long Beach Island. Whether you're looking to relive your childhood in a Long Beach Island vacation home or you're looking to buy or invest in Long Beach Island, Manahawkin, or Beach Haven NJ real estate; I can help you find the right property for your needs.
Having both bought and rented properties here in Long Beach Island, I look at the market a little differently than most real estate agents. In fact, I consider every person I work with to be a potential neighbor. And in the spirit of being a good neighbor, I will use my wealth of experience and connections to make sure you fully understand the finer details of buying Long Beach Island NJ real estate, Manahawkin NJ real estate, or Beach Haven NJ real estate.
Give me a call today or find out more about buying Long Beach Island real estate.
They say that the three most important things in real estate are location, location, location. But what they neglect to mention is that location is worth very little if you don't intimately know the area and the intricacies of the specific market. So what they could be saying instead is that experience, experience, experience is what it takes to sell Long Beach Island NJ real estate, Manahawkin NJ real estate, and Beach Haven NJ real estate.
And with years of experience helping people sell their Long Beach Island homes, including selling my own here, I understand on a personal level what the key is to selling real estate in Long Beach Island, Manahawkin, and Beach Haven. That key is a solid foundation of trust and the right real estate connections. In fact, I make it a point to maintain a network made up of real estate agents and perspective homebuyers. That way, a potential buyer for your home could very well be just a phone call or email away.
Contact me today or find out more about selling Long Beach Island real estate.

Clemson, S.C.—The Clemson women’s golf team returns to the course for the second straight week at the sixth annual Allstate Sugar Bowl Invitational at English Turn in New Orleans, La. Clemson is one of 16 teams in the field that includes seven of the top 25 teams in the nation. The field includes four teams from the SEC, three from the ACC and Pac 12, one from the Big 10 and one from the Big 12.
This will be Clemson’s sixth tournament of the year and second this spring. The Tigers have a 48-32-2 record against the field in the previous five events. Clemson returned Tuesday night from a 16th place finish at the Lady Puerto Rico Classic. J.T. Horton’s team will take two freshmen, two juniors and a sophomore to this year’s All-state Sugar Bowl Tournament.
Field: Alabama, Arizona, Clemson, Denver, Florida, LSU, Miami (FL), Michigan State, Mississippi State, Oklahoma State, Stanford, Texas, Tulane, UC Davis, UCF, UCLA, Virginia.
Format: Three 18-hole rounds each day Sunday through Tuesday, Feb. 21-23.
Clemson Lineup: Alice Hewson, Fr. (72.67); Lauren Stephenson, Fr. (73.33), Jessica Hoang, Jr. (75.92); Sloan Shanahan, Jr. (75.33); Marisa Messana, So. (76.56).
Tournament History: This will be Clemson’s third appearance in the Allstate Sugar Bowl. The event was started by Clemson Head Coach J.T. Horton, who was the head coach at Tulane prior to coming to Clemson. Clemson finished fifth of 17 teams in 2014 and 14th of 15 teams last year. Sloan Shanahan, who will be in Clemson’s lineup this weekend, finished sixth as a freshman at the Allstate Sugar Bowl with a 211 score, five-under-par. She had rounds of 71-70-70, the only time she has had three under-par rounds in the same tournament. Current junior Jessica Hoang had a 226 in the 2014 event and a 236 last year. She was Clemson’s second best player last year. Messana was the top Clemson player in 2015 with a 235 score.
Clemson in 2015-16: Clemson has a 48-32-2 record against the field in its first six events. The fall was highlighted by a second-place finish at the Yale Women’s Intercollegiate and a fifth-place at the Cougar Classic in Charleston. Clemson freshmen Alice Hewson and Lauren Stephenson have already combined for three victories. Hewson was co-medalist at the Cougar Classic and won the Lady Paladin Invitational, while Stephenson was co-medalist at Yale. Jessica Hoang and Lauren Stephenson were Clemson’s top players last week in Puerto Rico. Hoang finished strong with scores of 72-73 in the last two rounds, while Stephenson had a 71 in the first round and was tied for sixth place. Both ladies finished 34th for the 54 holes with scores of 226.

J Health Polit Policy Law (2003) 28 (5): 859-882.
Home care services funded by Medicare and Medicaid grew rapidly throughout most of the 1990s. During this period some state Medicaid programs transferred costs for home care claims to the Medicare program to reduce their liability and increase beneficiary access to Medicare coverage. This article reports the findings of the first national study of these Medicare maximization billing practices for home care services. Primary data were collected to determine which states conduct retrospective Medicare billing practices and the amounts recovered from Medicare. Our analysis indicates that seven states recovered as much as $265 million from Medicare in state and federal dollars during the 1990s. Ratios of recovered expenditures-to-costs incurred for retrospective billing practices conducted in Connecticut, New York, and Massachusetts are between 5:1 and 7:1. While retrospective billing practices may aid states in reducing Medicaid outlays and potentially help dual Medicare beneficiaries gain coverage for their home care claims, they increase Medicare expenditures for home care at a time of concern for the long-term financial viability of Medicare and illustrate the need for reforming our national long-term care financing policy.

Robert A. Kloner, MD, Ph.D., is Chief Science Officer and Director of Cardiovascular Research at Huntington Medical Research Institutes (HMRI). He serves as Professor of Medicine (Clinical Scholar) at Keck School of Medicine at the University of Southern California and is an attending cardiologist at LAC+USC. Prior to accepting an appointment at HMRI, Dr. Kloner served as Director of Research of the Heart Institute of Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles from 1987 to December 2014. He has run nationally and internationally known cardiovascular research programs for over 40 years, training dozens of medical scientists and collaborating with scores of physician-scientists, numerous research institutions, and medical industries worldwide. During his administrative tenure at both Wayne State University and The Heart Institute of Good Samaritan Hospital, he built successful research facilities from the ground-up, creating centers recognized for scientific excellence and innovation.
In the mid-1970s Dr. Kloner received his MD in the Honors Program in Medical Education and Ph.D. (Experimental Pathology) degrees from Northwestern University Medical School in Chicago where he trained in the laboratory of Dr. Robert Jennings. Dr. Kloner is a member of the Alpha Omega Alpha honor society. He completed internship and residency in internal medicine at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital and Harvard Medical School in Boston, Massachusetts (1975-1978). Additional training included clinical and research fellowships in medicine and cardiology (with Drs. Eugene Braunwald and Peter Maroko) at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women’s Hospital. He served as Assistant and then Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and was an attending cardiologist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital (1979-1984). He was the recipient of an Established Investigator Award of the American Heart Association (AHA), is a fellow of the American College of Cardiology, an Inaugural Fellow of the Council on Basic Cardiovascular Sciences of the AHA, and was elected to the American Society of Clinical Investigation. In 2015 he was elected a Fellow of the Cardiovascular Section of the American Physiology Society.
Dr. Kloner has made major contributions to the understanding and treatment of heart disease, receiving funding from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), American Heart Association (AHA), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Department of Defense (DOD) and numerous corporations and private foundations. He has made major contributions in the following areas: the pathophysiology of heart attack; treatments for heart attack; triggers of cardiovascular events; studies on high blood pressure and heart failure; the effect of toxins like alcohol, cocaine, and pollution on the heart; stem cell therapy for the heart; the intersection between sexual dysfunction and cardiovascular disease. His current work at HMRI, funded by the DOD, assesses new therapies for hemorrhagic shock; additional current work funded by the NIH and Tobacco-Related Disease Research Program studies the effects of e-cigarettes on the cardiovascular system. Throughout his career, Dr. Kloner has participated in several large multi-center studies. This experience has enabled Dr. Kloner to actively facilitate cross-disciplinary research initiatives within HMRI, advising and collaborating with the bio-technology group (cell phone app for assessing heart function), neuro-science, stem cell biology, and imaging scientists.
A frequent contributor to the medical and scientific press, Dr. Kloner has authored or co-authored over 720 original papers in peer-reviewed journals, 219 chapters or monographs, and 518 abstracts (as of 2019). Dr. Kloner is the author and editor of 18 medical texts including Cardiovascular Trials Reviews (10 editions); The Guide to Cardiology (3 editions); Stunned Myocardium; Ischemic Preconditioning; VIAGRA; and Heart Disease and Erectile Dysfunction. In addition, he has written and published three medical science fiction novels.
Among his editorial responsibilities, Dr. Kloner served as editor-in-chief of the Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacology and Therapeutics (2009-2019). He has served as Guest Editor of Circulation. He is on the editorial boards of American Journal of Cardiology, Basic Research in Cardiology, International Journal of Impotence Research, Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Regenerative Medicine, and Life Sciences. Among his many career distinctions, Dr. Kloner has been listed in Who’s Who in America, The Best Doctors in America and in 2002 was cited by the Institute for Scientific Information as one of the most highly cited scientific authors. He has an H-index of 99 and is cited over 41,830 times as per the Web of Science. Dr. Kloner is a frequent lecturer at major scientific symposia including the Scientific Sessions of the American Heart Association, American College of Cardiology, and Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics Meetings, and he has lectured at most major academic medical centers in the United States. He has taught at both the Keck School of Medicine at USC and lectured at Caltech.

Rope Access is a much more cost effective technique than some traditional methods. It also offers other benefits such as rapid mobilisation minimal disruption and reduced cost.
Our purpose built, IRATA accredited training centre provides Rope Access Training (Levels 1-3) to both experienced and new starters in the industry and on successful completion, you will hold an internationally recognised qualification.
By training to the IRATA rope access standards with RU:Training, you can be safe in the knowledge you have been trained to the highest level in line with IRATA guidelines for Rope Access.
The IRATA Level 1 Rope Access course is an introduction to the rope access industry. The IRATA Level 1 course is the entry level into the industry and candidates with this qualification are qualified to work on rope access sites throughout the World, under the supervision of an IRATA Rope Access Safety Supervisor. The course provides key principles of the skills and knowledge required including rope access and climbing manoeuvres, rescue & hauling exercises, theoretical knowledge and equipment and rigging. This IRATA Level 1 accredited qualification is essential for entering the industrial rope access industry.
The IRATA Level 2 Rope Access course offers a wider range of knowledge and skills including, rigging working ropes, undertaking a wider range of rescues and performing rope access tasks. To progress to IRATA Level 2 candidates must have at least 12 months and 1,000 working hours experience as an IRATA Level 1 Technician. Candidates must also have knowledge of legislation and safety requirements relating to rope access such as the IRATA general requirements.
The IRATA Level 3 Rope Access course is an advanced qualification which offers the necessary requirements to be a Safety Supervisor of rope access projects. To progress to IRATA Level 3 candidates must have a minimum of 12 months and 1,000 working hours experience as a IRATA Level 2 Technician, be in possession of an appropriate industrial medical certificate and a greater theoretical knowledge of rope access legislation, risk assessment/method statements, manoeuvres and rescue management.

It is no secret that the husband and I have built a fairly extensive network at home. It started way back when when I studied towards the NT4 MCSE, and, over the years, as new products were released, we added those products to our network to further our learning.
Yesterday, we wiped our domain controller, and started fresh on 2008. Using the Add Roles wizard got a little confusing, so I reverted to the more familiar dcpromo, which made a lot more sense, and didn’t feel much different from 2003. Of course, the AD roles are now extended and sparkly new, so you have to pay attention during the wizard. DO NOT just click next, next finish.
Of course, our Hyper-V machine is also running 2008, but I had precious little to do with that install – the husband did it in the dead of night one night when he couldn’t sleep.
I had a couple of issues initially with the DNS setup. No reverse lookup zone was created, and there were a couple of other things I needed to tweak as well. I am a little concerned, because the self-tests continuously fail, so I am still not convinced that the DNS install is 100% super—duper, but, for now, the network is working, so I am not going to play too much right now (ie. I will fix this later).
We have also been doing a SQL consolidation, and I am going to attempt to rewrite our intranet in ASP.net with a SQL2008 back-end. I have been threatening for years to do this, and I suppose that time has come.
One of the reasons we decided to start over was because we had been installing a variety of services into the old domain that made a bit of a mess to the schema, especially because we didn’t clean up correctly – reinstalled machines without removing the applications correctly, that kind of thing. One of the big culprits here was LCS.
Granted, we make these mistakes because it is a home environment, so it is not critical to achieve 9 sigma, but we have also learnt some good lessons that we may actually one day apply in corporate environments.
And while it is not important at home to have 100% uptime, we do strive to stay up as much as possible, especially because we do actually make use of some of these services to keep our home running, such as schedule all family outings via Exchange and keep track of our budget and shopping lists via our intranet web. And our internet connection needs to be up as much as possible, because I am an addict our daughter needs it for homework.

No, Trump can’t pardon himself. The Constitution tells us so.
Correction: An earlier version of this op-ed misspelled the name of former defense secretary Caspar Weinberger. This version has been updated.
Laurence H. Tribe is the Carl M. Loeb University Professor and Professor of Constitutional Law at Harvard Law School. Richard Painter, a law professor at the University of Minnesota, was chief White House ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush from 2005 to 2007 and is vice-chair of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW). Norman Eisen, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, was chief White House ethics lawyer for President Barack Obama from 2009 to 2011 and is chair of CREW.
Elizabeth Holtzman: In the Russia probe, could Trump pardon himself?
Dana Milbank: Trump can do whatever he wants. God help us.

Corrugated boxes and other custom corrugated packaging with a wide array of board grades and printing capabilities.
Quality new construction pallets, skids, crates and other industrial wood products, produced at our dedicated wood plants.
Custom foam inserts and assemblies offered in various densities and materials, designed to fully protect your product.
We are proud to offer value-add engineering and design services by our in-house packaging engineers.
GPC opened for business in 1957, and we have spent the last several decades building our reputation as a leading manufacturer of packaging products, and integrated packaging solutions. We have a passion for customer service and ship to hundreds of different customers each month across a wide variety of industries. Anyone can give you a box. We provide you with the right packaging solution at extremely competitive prices.
Our main product lines include wood products - such as pallets and crates - corrugated boxes, and foam cushioning products. GPC can serve as your one-stop-shop for all your industrial packaging needs, by combining different materials into integrated packaging – specifically built for your product. Additionally, we operate our own fleet of trucks to better control delivery schedules and promote on-time deliveries.

Textile machines are used for businesses that produce articles of clothing and other materials that incorporate yard, beads, and general sewing into their products. Textile machinery spins the thread and the yarn into beautiful patterns and designed.
For nearly 25 years, India’s Intec Capital has helped textile machinery become acquirable through financing options, which helps small business enterprises, or SMEs, improve their production and output.
Why loan for Textile Industry?
Through easy payment options and low rates, financing textile machinery has never been easier, and all it takes is one simple financing application to get your business the machinery it needs. The approval process is quick, efficient, and only one page long, unlike other textile machinery loan companies, who will quickly deny you for the smallest reason, and leave you with a cramp in your hand from filling out so much needless paperwork.
Is Textile Industry finance for you?
If you are a business owner who is faced with the problem of not being able to afford new textile machinery, then consider the options that Intec Capital offers. The cost of new machinery is a very prohibitive one, and that is why it’s best to go with a financing company who are experts in the leasing of manufacturing equipment.
How can I get a Textile Industry loan?
Fill an online loan application form on our website indicating the type of loan facility you need.
And plenty more advantages and pros for businesses.
By giving our clients the most affordable options for textile machinery loans in the country, we have helped businesses get themselves off the ground, gain profits, and create a network that is best for them, and all through easy payments and options.

In fact, there are currently over a million international students studying in the United States. India and China are by far the two largest contributors, with 47% of all students for the 2015-2016 school year.
The visa application process can be confusing though, especially when English isn’t your strong suit. We at TransparentCareer have laid out each type of visa used by international students, and the application process for each visa.
F1 Visa– These are the most common type of visas, and are used for bachelor and graduate school degrees, as well as training programs in the English language. The first step is to check whether the university you’re interested in is verified by the United States government – you can’t get an F1 visa for non accredited universities. Take a look here to see if your school is verified. The first step is to apply to universities where you want to study. Upon acceptance, the university will provide you with a form I-20. Keep in mind – you can’t transfer once you select a school. Make sure it’s the right fit for you! You’ll then have to go to the site of the US embassy closest to you, and pay a non refundable application fee. Find the embassy closest to you here.
You’ll then have to prepare for an interview – the sooner you can set this up the better. The interviewer will require proof of intent to return to your country after you complete your education (such as family, home job offer) as well as a passport and the form I-20 provided by your school. The interview will also require proof of financial sufficiency to fund your education. If you need advice on how to finance your education, take a look at this guide. Depending on your school you may also have to provide test scores such as the SAT, GMAT, or GRE.
J1A Visa– J1A visas are for those looking to temporarily stay in the US for a work or culture exchange program, such as to be an au pair, international camp counselor, or for specific medical training. To be accepted, you have to be sponsored by a nonprofit or government organization. You can find a list of all approved organizations here. After applying and being approved by an organization, they’ll provide you with a DS-2019 form to fill out. Then you have to apply for a J1A visa at your nearest US embassy. A Sevis I-901 fee must then be paid (sometimes by your sponsor), along with a Nonimmigrant Application Processing Fee of $160. You must then schedule an appointment with the embassy, giving plenty of time in case anything goes wrong. Bring along the DS-2019 form provided by your sponsor, as well as your passport, a 2×2 photo, and any additional documentation that may be required depending on the nature of your program. You can find the types of documentation on the J1A government site.
M1A Visa– This is visa for vocational training in the US. There must be a specific program/school when you apply for the visa, and you’ll have certain requirements and forms you might have to fill out for the school before applying for a visa. You aren’t allowed to work while studying in the US, so you must prove to the school that you have enough money to stay in the US while getting your training. If approved by the school, they’ll give you a form I-20 to fill out, which you’ll need next when you set up a meeting at your nearest US Embassy. You’ll also have to pay an application fee, and bring your passport, a photo (with rules provided by your consulate), a DS-160 form, and a DS-157 form if you’re a male between the ages of 16 and 45.
H1B Visa- H1B work visas are for those that have completed a higher form of education and want to work in America – it’s the most common way for foreign students to stay and work in the US after graduation. These visas have to be filed by your employer, so if you’re hoping to stay in America after graduation you should start the job search as soon as possible. Approvals are done through a lottery system, and start to fill up quickly after the government’s fiscal year starts – typically October 1. You may file up to 6 months in advance, so filing as close to April 1 as possible is ideal. There are a total of 85,000 visas issued this way each year, and the first 20,000 are reserved for those with master’s degrees or higher levels of education. The remaining 65,000 are available to those with bachelor’s degrees, along with those that didn’t make it past the first round with a master’s or higher level of education.
A lot of controversy has stirred up around H1B visas recently after the election of Donald Trump, who has claimed on numerous occasions that he wants to get rid of people who got into the US unfairly. According to Forbes, the top 10 companies that sponsor H1B visas received 25,000 visas in 2014, which is nearly 30% of all issued H1B visas. Of these 10 firms, half were firms based in India, typically working with call centers. Trump and others supportive of a crackdown claim that firms are submitting multiple applications for one person in order to game the system. 236,000 applications were received last year for the 85,000 positions, but that doesn’t necessarily mean that there were 236,000 applicants. While we haven’t seen what a Trump presidency will look like yet, stopping people from abusing the system may provide more opportunities for foreign students looking to work in the US after graduation.
Check out our industry career guides on Finance, Consulting, and Tech to help you decide which is the best fit for you.
Looking to stay in the states after graduation? You’ll need to get a great job first. TransparentCareer offers free data on career pathing, salary negotiation, and compensation. Sign up for free here.

What do you do in your free time? Of course some of you ,watch TV or play video games . If it is too boring, would you like to do something more interesting? All of you have wild imagination ,so you can make your own games!
Lisa Green ,who's 35 years old ,has been making her own games since she was 5 .I asked her How she started that hobby.She told me that she didn't like the games which other children play, so she started to make her own games. Then ,I asked her If it was difficult to make her own games. She told me that it wasn't difficult and,If you had imagination ,you would be a very good player too.
Lisa yesterday invented a new game which is called table tennis with hand .You paint a court of table tennis , then you take the ball and throw it to the other. If you want to use a net make one! Isn't it a fantastic game ?
With a bit practise, you'll be make your own games in no time !!
Say hi to the future blogger of the school, Marinos!
2013! Marinos is a "present" blogger now!! It is very thrilling, isn't it!!
That sounds very interesting, Raffaela!! I think that you have really wild imagination!!!!
Two missions before winter courses start!

We all have read the tales told of Jesus in the Gospels, but few people really have a good idea of their context. Yet it is quite enlightening to examine them against the background of the time and place in which they were written, and my goal here is to help you do just that. There is abundant evidence that these were times replete with kooks and quacks of all varieties, from sincere lunatics to ingenious frauds, even innocent men mistaken for divine, and there was no end to the fools and loons who would follow and praise them. Placed in this context, the gospels no longer seem to be so remarkable, and this leads us to an important fact: when the Gospels were written, skeptics and informed or critical minds were a small minority. Although the gullible, the credulous, and those ready to believe or exaggerate stories of the supernatural are still abundant today, they were much more common in antiquity, and taken far more seriously.
If the people of that time were so gullible or credulous or superstitious, then we have to be very cautious when assessing the reliability of witnesses of Jesus. As Thomas Jefferson believed when he composed his own version of the gospels, Jesus may have been an entirely different person than the Gospels tell us, since the supernatural and other facts about him, even some of his parables or moral sayings, could easily have been added or exaggerated by unreliable witnesses or storytellers. Thus, this essay is not about whether Jesus was real or how much of what we are told about him is true. It is not even about Jesus. Rather, this essay is a warning and a standard, by which we can assess how likely or easily what we are told about Jesus may be false or exaggerated, and how little we can trust anyone who claims to be a witness of what he said and did. For if all of these other stories below could be told and believed, even by Christians themselves, it follows that the Gospels, being of entirely the same kind, can all too easily be inaccurate, tainted by the gullibility, credulity, or fondness for the spectacular which characterized most people of the time.
Even in Acts, we get an idea of just how gullible people could be. Surviving a snake bite was evidently enough for the inhabitants of Malta to believe that Paul himself was a god (28:6). And Paul and his comrade Barnabas had to go to some lengths to convince the Lycaonians of Lystra that they were not deities. For the locals immediately sought to sacrifice to them as manifestations of Hermes and Zeus, simply because a man with bad feet stood up (14:8-18). These stories show how ready people were to believe that gods can take on human form and walk among them, and that a simple show was sufficient to convince them that mere men were such divine beings. And this evidence is in the bible itself.
Beyond the bible, the historian Josephus supplies some insights. Writing toward the end of the first century, himself an eye-witness of the Roman destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A.D, he tells us that the region was filled with "cheats and deceivers claiming divine inspiration" (Jewish War, 2.259-60; Jewish Antiquities, 20.167), entrancing the masses and leading them like sheep, usually to their doom. The most successful of these "tricksters" appears to be "the Egyptian" who led a flock of 30,000 believers around Palestine (Jewish War, 2.261-2; Paul is mistaken for him by a Roman officer in Acts 21:38). This fellow even claimed he could topple the walls of Jerusalem with a single word (Jewish Antiquities, 20.170), yet it took a massacre at the hands of Roman troops to finally instill doubt in his followers.
Twenty years later, a common weaver named Jonathan would attract a mob of the poor and needy, promising to show them many signs and portents (Jewish War, 7.437-8). Again, it took military intervention to disband the movement. Josephus also names a certain Theudas, another "trickster" who gathered an impressive following in Cyrene around 46 A.D., claiming he was a prophet and could part the river Jordan (Jewish Antiquities, 20.97). This could be the same Theudas mentioned in Acts 5:36. Stories like these also remind us of the faithful following that Simon was reported to have had in Acts 8:9-11, again showing how easy it was to make people believe you had "the power of god" at your disposal. Jesus was not unique in that respect.
Miracles were also a dime a dozen in this era. The biographer Plutarch, a contemporary of Josephus, engages in a lengthy digression to prove that a statue of Tyche did not really speak in the early Republic (Life of Coriolanus 37.3). He claims it must have been a hallucination inspired by the deep religious faith of the onlookers, since there were, he says, too many reliable witnesses to dismiss the story as an invention (38.1-3). He even digresses further to explain why other miracles such as weeping or bleeding--even moaning--statues could be explained as natural phenomena, showing a modest but refreshing degree of skeptical reasoning that would make the Amazing Randi proud. What is notable is not that Plutarch proves himself to have some good sense, but that he felt it was necessary to make such an argument at all. Clearly, such miracles were still reported and believed in his own time. I find this to be a particularly interesting passage, since we have thousands of believers flocking to weeping and bleeding statues even today. Certainly the pagan gods must also exist if they could make their statues weep and bleed as well!
Miraculous healings were also commonplace. Suetonius, another biographer writing a generation after Plutarch, reports that even the emperor Vespasian once cured the blind and lame (Life of Vespasian 7.13; this "power" being attributed to the god Serapis--incidentally the Egyptian counterpart to Asclepius; cf. also Tacitus, Histories 4.81). Likewise, statues with healing powers were common attractions for sick people of this era. Lucian mentions the famous healing powers of a statue of Polydamas, an athlete, at Olympia, as well as the statue of Theagenes at Thasos (Council of the Gods 12). Both are again mentioned by Pausanias, in his "tour guide" of the Roman world (6.5.4-9, 11.2-9). Lucian also mentions the curative powers of the statue of a certain General Pellichos (Philopseudes 18-20). And Athenagoras, in his Legatio pro Christianis (26), polemicizes against the commonplace belief in the healing powers of statues, mentioning, in addition to the statue of a certain Neryllinus, the statues of Proteus and Alexander, the same two men I discuss in detail below.
But above all these, the "pagans" had Asclepius, their own healing savior, centuries before, and after, the ministry of Christ. Surviving testimonies to his influence and healing power throughout the classical age are common enough to fill a two-volume book (Edelstein and Edelstein, Asclepius: A Collection and Interpretation of the Testimonies, in two volumes, 1945--entries 423-450 contain the most vivid testimonials). Of greatest interest are the inscriptions set up for those healed at his temples. These give us almost first hand testimony, more reliable evidence than anything we have for the miracles of Jesus, of the blind, the lame, the mute, even the victims of kidney stones, paralytics, and one fellow with a spearhead stuck in his jaw (see the work cited above, p. 232), all being cured by this pagan "savior." And this testimony goes on for centuries. Inscriptions span from the 4th century B.C. to the 3rd century A.D. and later, all over the Roman Empire. Clearly, the people of this time were quite ready to believe such tales. They were not remarkable tales at all.
This more general evidence of credulity in the Roman Empire shows the prevalence of belief in divine miracle working of all kinds. I will now present you with three historical individuals who truly flesh out the picture.
Apollonius, Peregrinus, and Alexander are three rather interesting religious founders about whom we know even more than we do of Jesus. The first, Apollonius of Tyana, is often called the "pagan Christ," since he also lived during the first century, and performed a similar ministry of miracle-working, preaching his own brand of ascetic Pythagoreanism--he was also viewed as the son of a god, resurrected the dead, ascended to heaven, performed various miracles, and criticized the authorities with pithy wisdom much like Jesus did.
Naturally, his story is one that no doubt grew into more and more fantastic legends over time, until he becomes an even more impressive miracle-worker than Jesus in the largest surviving work on him, The Life of Apollonius of Tyana, written by Philostratus around 220 A.D. This work is available today in two volumes as part of the Loeb Classical Library, published by Harvard University Press, a set that also includes the surviving fragments of Apollonius' own writings (if only Jesus had bothered to write something!) as well as the Treatise against him by the Christian historian Eusebius. There were other books written about him immediately after his death, but none survive.
Even Eusebius, in his Treatise against Apollonius, does not question his existence, or the reality of many of his miracles--rather, he usually tries to attribute them to trickery or demons. This shows the credulity of the times, even among educated defenders of the Christian faith, but it also shows how easy it was to deceive. Since they readily believed in demons and magical powers, it should not surprise us that they believed in resurrections and transmutations of water to wine.
We also know that the cult that grew up around Apollonius survived for many centuries after his death. An inscription from as late as the 3rd century names him as a sort of pagan "absolver of sins," sent from heaven (Oxford Classical Dictionary, 3rd ed., 1996). The emperor Caracalla erected a shrine to him in Tyana around 215 A.D (Dio Cassius, 78.18; for a miraculous display of clairvoyance on the part of Apollonius, see 67.18). According to one account, the ghost of Apollonius even appeared to the emperor Aurelian to convince him to stop his siege of Tyana, whereupon he also erected a shrine to him around 274 A.D. (Historia Augusta: Vita Aureliani 24.2-6).
Later Arabic sources even discuss the fame and potency of certain relics associated with him, which remained in use well into the sixth and seventh centuries, the last of them apparently destroyed by crusaders in 1204 A.D. So popular was the belief in the power of these "talismans" that the Church was forced to accept their use, even while condemning Apollonius and his shrines as demonic (see sources below). And so, we see here an independent confirmation that blind belief in the divine status and miraculous powers of mere mortals easily captivated the people of this time, a fact that even modern Christians must admit.
An even more colorful story is that of a crazy fellow called Peregrinus, nicknamed "Proteus," who set himself on fire during the Olympic games in 165 A.D. to prove his faith in reincarnation. The notion of suicide as a proof of such faith was not new. Indian Brahmans had immolated themselves before Western audiences on several occasions before, the most famous being Calanus, at Susa, in front of Alexander the Great, and Zarmarus, at Athens, in front of Augustus (Plutarch, Alexander 69.8). What is most relevant, however, is the fascinating story told about him by the skeptic Lucian in his satirical work, "The Death of Peregrinus." Lucian knew Proteus personally, and he gives us a look at what the story of Jesus might have been had a skeptic been around to give us a different account.
While Aulus Gellius had also met this man in Athens, and was impressed enough to call him a man of "dignity and fortitude" (Attic Nights 11.1-7), Lucian had another point of view. He describes the vainglorious motivations of Proteus, and the duped mobs clamoring for a miracle. He also mentions the gullibility of Christians, who, he says, were easily duped by scam artists (13). Indeed, after the death of Peregrinus, people reported that he was, like Jesus, risen from the dead, wearing white raiment, and that he ascended to heaven in the form of a vulture (40). The punch line is that this latter story may have been a deliberate invention of Lucian himself (39), told to gullible followers, and later recounted to him as if it were fact, showing the effects of the rumor mill at work. Indeed, even people who were in the same city at the time were ready to believe that an earthquake accompanied his death, reminding us of the absurd miracles surrounding the death of Jesus recounted without a blush in Matthew 27:51-54. How easy it was for such stories to be believed! Even if this tale is filled with rhetoric on the part of Lucian, his criticism of gullibility would have no weight if it did not ring true.
Peregrinus also had a small cult following after his death. His staff was treated as a religious relic (Lucian, The Ignorant Book Collector 14), his disciples preached his doctrine (Lucian, Runaways), and his statue healed the sick and gave oracles (Athenagoras, cited above). But his bid for religious glory was not as successful as another man, Alexander of Abonuteichos. Lucian dedicates an even longer and more vicious account of his personal contacts with this man, whom he calls "the quack prophet." The account alone is detailed and entertaining, but for our present purpose it illustrates how easy it was to invent a god and watch the masses scurry to worship it. His scam began around 150 A.D. and lasted well beyond his death in 170 A.D., drawing the patronage of emperors and provincial governors as well as the commons. His cult may have even lasted into the 4th century, although the evidence is unclear.
The official story was that a snake-god with a human head was born as an incarnation of Asclepius, and Alexander was his keeper and intermediary. With this arrangement Alexander gave oracles, offered intercessory prayers, and even began his own mystery religion. Lucian tells us the inside story. Glycon was in fact a trained snake with a puppet head, and all the miracles surrounding him were either tall tales or the ingenious tricks of Alexander himself. But what might we think had there been no Lucian to tell us this? So credulous was the public as well as the government, that a petition to change the name of the town where the god lived, and to strike a special coin in his honor (Lucian, Alexander 58), was heeded, and we have direct confirmation of both facts: such coins have been found, dating from the reign of Antoninus Pius and continuing up into the 3rd century, bearing the unique image of a human-headed snake god. Likewise, the town of Abonuteichos was petitioned to be renamed Ionopolis, and the town is today known as Ineboli, a clear derivation. Even statues, inscriptions, and other carvings survive, attesting to this Alexander and his god Glycon and their ensuing cult (Culture and Society in Lucian, pp. 138, 143).
As for his influence, Lucian tells us that Severianus, the governor of Cappadocia, was killed in Armenia because he believed an oracle of Alexander's (27), and Rutilianus, the governor of Moesia and Asia, was also a devout follower, and even married Alexander's daughter. Indeed, Alexander's "god" was so popular that people rushed all the way from Rome to consult him (30), and even the emperor Marcus Aurelius sought his prophecy (48). From this it is all the more apparent that religious crazes were a dime a dozen in the time and place of the Gospels, helping to explain why a new and strange religion like Christianity could become so popular, and its claims--which to us sound absurd--could be so readily believed.
The final lesson from the case of Alexander and Peregrinus is that Lucian's skeptical debunking never persuaded any believers, showing that even the rare skeptic, no matter how convincing his arguments and evidence, could have no practical effect on the credulous. The vast majority would never read or hear anything he wrote, and most of those who did would dismiss it. Indeed, believers were hostile to critical thought and would shout the skeptics down and drive off even suspected doubters in their midst, as actually happened in the case of Alexander: before every ceremony, the congregation would cry "Away with the Epicureans! Away with the Christians!" (and atheists and unbelievers in general: 38) since these two groups had a reputation for trying to debunk popular religion (this hostility could even come to slander and violence: 25). In effect, this was like clamping their hands over their ears and humming, deliberately refusing even to hear reasonable arguments, much less to consider their force.
From all of this one thing should be apparent: the age of Jesus was not an age of critical reflection and remarkable religious acumen. It was an era filled with con artists, gullible believers, martyrs without a cause, and reputed miracles of every variety. In light of this picture, the tales of the Gospels do not seem very remarkable. Even if they were false in every detail, there is no evidence that they would have been disbelieved or rejected as absurd by many people, who at the time had little in the way of education or critical thinking skills. They had no newspapers, telephones, photographs, or public documents to consult to check a story. If they were not a witness, all they had was a man's word. And even if they were a witness, the tales above tell us that even then their skills of critical reflection were lacking. Certainly, this age did not lack keen and educated skeptics--it is not that there were no skilled and skeptical observers. There were. Rather, the shouts of the credulous rabble overpowered their voice and seized the world from them, boldly leading them all into the darkness of a thousand years of chaos. Perhaps we should not repeat the same mistake. After all, the wise learn from history. The fool ignores it.
Glenn Miller has written a rebuttal to this essay ("Were the Miracles of Jesus invented by the Disciples/Evangelists?" 2002), in response to which I changed some of the language above so as not to give a mistaken impression of my meaning. Miller's title has little to do with my essay, since I am not arguing here (even if I do elsewhere) that anyone in particular "invented" the miracles of Jesus. Rather, I am merely presenting a survey of the social and intellectual context in which those miracles came to be believed.
As to the remainder of Miller's criticism of this essay specifically, I plan to respond in a future rebuttal (which will be announced here). But one simple point must be made even now: almost all of Miller's relevant evidence comes from the educated or even scholarly elite (like Lucian), and thus in no way represents the average man or woman in antiquity, who by their very circumstance wrote nothing for Miller to examine. I would guess that skilled skeptics and skeptical viewpoints like those Miller finds probably could not be found in much more than 10% of the population of the time, if even that--but whose existence I acknowledged even in the original draft of this essay.
The fact that pagan miracle working is not much heard of today is in large part due to the more effective Christian propaganda during the Empire and, of course, a thousand years of censorship afterward. An excellent discussion of the former, and how it contributed to the eventual success of the Church, is given by Thomas Matthews in The Clash of the Gods: A Reinterpretation of Christian Art (1993). For a broad comparative study of holy men of all faiths (Christian, pagan, and Jewish) in the time of Jesus, an excellent source is Sage, Saint, and Sophist: Holy Men and their Associates in the Early Roman Empire, by Graham Anderson (1994). Both are highly recommended.
The most extensive study on the historicity of Apollonius as well as his cult and legend can be found in the otherwise dry work by Maria Dzielska, Apollonius of Tyana in Legend and History, translated by Piotr Pienkowski (L'Erma di Bretschneider, 1986). Interested scholars should begin there. In particular, the source tradition on his magic "talismans" is a complicated affair, but their history and reluctant acceptance by the Church is discussed at great length by Dzielska in chapter 3. As for Lucian, his works about Peregrinus and Alexander are available in a very readable and engaging English translation in Lionel Casson's Selected Satires of Lucian (1962). These two stories are a very fun read, and well worth seeking out. An excellent survey and analysis of Lucian's works and his surrounding culture is available in Culture and Society in Lucian by C. P. Jones (1986). This is, in fact, a must-read for anyone interested in the contrast between free thought and gullibility in the Roman Empire. It has entire chapters dedicated to Peregrinus and Alexander. Finally, Lucian's Philopseudes (or "Lover of Lies") is a virtual treasure trove of examples of ancient credulity and superstition that is a must-read source on the subject (it can be found in vol. 3 of Lucian's works in the Loeb Classical Library).

Travois is a Canadian company with clients from across Canada and the USA. We specialize solely on Mercedes Benz Sprinter and Metris vans.
Through Mercedes Benz, we are able to supply our clients in Canada as well as the USA with direct factory orders giving them considerable savings.
If you already own a van, we will be happy to work with you on your build, whether you choose one of our pre-engineered packages, or we can work together on your desired configuration. From sports activity vans, full campers, business promotional vans all the way to mobile research labs.
We are very proud to offer our North American clients the following European product lines; RIB Scopema, Schnierle, Quickout.de, Wallas, C-F Maier pop-top roofs, Swissteck swivels, Travois bonded sliding windows, Travois skid plates, transfer case cradles, snorkels, true protection side steps, and many more quality European products at affordable prices.

I have posted a letter of intent similar to this in the past... doing so in this various places for years, but wanted to renew the sentiments for the coming season.
I write today you to tell you of my RENEWED intentions for this year so as to spare you any confusion or frustration when next you encounter me. It is my intention to remain 'in character' as much as possible during my travels for this present year.
"Our organization will educate via a series of first person activities designed to demonstrate the real lives of sailors as they go about their business and live their lives."
There is no doubt in my mind that this could be difficult for me, but also for those around me; and I do not wish to alienate any of my friends or compatriots. Things will not be much different, I imagine, than they have been in the past... you've all met the Doctor during YOUR travels, and know the agreeable sort of fellow he can be.
I am generally already 'in character' for all the visitors and guests I work with at various events, if done correctly, I believe it can be a powerful learning tool for the public.
In addition, I'd like to request that you all help me to do this by not trying to 'snap me out of it' by mentioning a bunch of modern stuff to me whilst at an event. I believe that enough of you have my email address and are friends with me on various forums, message boards and social networking sites... that any out of character conversation can safely take place there at any time.
I tell you now that if you attempt to talk to the Doctor about movies, internet, cellphones and the like, he will be terribly confused. There is a time and a place for talk of that sort, and for me, it's NOT while I'm dressed out at an event.
I daresay I will go one step further and challenge YOU once again to give your interpretation and character some thought. It's no fun if I don't have a few of you to play along!
Special thanks to everyone that has encouraged me (verbally & otherwise) to do this in the past, I look forward to the additional research that I need to do over the fall and winter to get me where I need to be... and the Doctor looks forward to meeting you in the year to come. This has the potential to be a really fantastic learning experience!

Diagnosing numerous sclerosis is tough. Being examined and waiting for a diagnosis is grueling for both the affected person and their families. Even in this day and age, the procedure can take months, or even years in some instances. The stress of the testing, workplace visits and waiting can deliver someone more than the edge.
Give fleas and ticks the deliver-off: Flea and tick manage products this kind of as Frontline Furthermore and Frontline Spray are effortlessly available at pet shops and online pet pharmacies. Frontline Plus is a topical month-to-month pet med that is extremely recommended for flea and tick manage by vets throughout the world. It effectively kills ninety%twenty five adult fleas and ticks on animals and provides safety for one full thirty day period. Regular use of Frontline Plus will stop new development of flea eggs and larvae. It is efficient even after exposure to water and is regarded as safe for cats and dogs.
You can also request that your doctor give you a Lyme test. You can inquire your physician about their recommendation on medicines to stop a feasible energy healing rife machine infection. Depending on how recent the tick bite was, customers have noted receiving a couple of times or a few weeks of antibiotics from their physician.
Water is also useful for washing wounds and cleansing caked mud from between toes. Before the family piles back again into a shut-up car for the journey house, thoroughly clean water and a small dog shampoo are also very useful for cutting the “wild-thing” odor canines appear to produce on camping journeys!
Sunburn: Sunburns, sure your animals can get them. For the canines that are usually outdoors with you enduring the warmth, they might need sun block. If your dog has a pink nose or light colored they need sunlight block. They can get sunburned. On Entirely Pets website they show numerous kinds of lotions and sprays that are formulated for dogs that won’t damage them. 1 brand is Doggles Pet Sunscreen which is at a 15spf and can be sprayed on.
The pet proprietor only desires to remember applying the medication as soon as every 3 months. With the medication only needing to be administered 4 circumstances a 12 months, it’s easier for active pet homeowners to preserve their pet safe. And the gear program of for Frontline Plus couldn’t be any easier. The medication is squeezed from a tube in in between the pet’s shoulder blades. It’s as a result of it’s a location that is extra sturdy for the pet to be successful in and on account of this actuality it obtained be capable to lick it off. The medicine could have time to take effect.
So, the other way to properly treat rooster pox is to be inoculated. The vaccine is suggested by most pediatricians and will assist stop not only the itching and scratching of chicken pox, but also the pain of shingles.

A mattress for side sleepers? What about a mattress for back or stomach sleepers? Why is there a mattress designed specifically for side sleepers? The mattress must meet the unique needs that a side sleeper needs. The mattress should have a good temperature control so the person can sleep comfortably. The mattress should be reasonably priced and specifically designed for people who like to habitually sleep on their sides. The mattress must give this type of sleeper strong support for their backs, necks and legs, and feet. If the person likes to bend their legs while they sleep or they like to sleep with their legs straight the mattress must be able to meet these needs. This is why memory foam would be good to have so it will form to the person’s peculiar sleeping position.
Benefits and Uses: The mattress is supposed to have 3.5 gel memory foam that conforms to your body. It Will keep the spine aligned and prevent tossing and turning during the night. It does not allow for motion transfer and it will help you have a great night’s sleep. It is lined with New Zealand wool which absorbs moisture and controls the temperature. It will also stop odor from absorbing into the mattress. It contains no harsh chemicals or chemicals that are flame retardant. The mattress is great for side sleepers and the company offers a limited 25 year limited warranty. The mattress is rolled up and compressed into the box for easy shipping.
Feedback: The mattress had over 2200 review written about it. The customer has rheumatoid arthritis and says she can sleep on the sorest parts of her body and she has no pain. The pressure points are fine and she woke up at 7:30 in the morning and she felt like she had slept until 11:00 a.m. She was afraid to sleep on memory foam but she now has no reservations about it.
The customer said they researched the product thoroughly and decided to buy this memory foam mattress. He had tried several other memory foam mattresses in the past. He ordered the product and it was delivered to the front door. The customer was told the box weighed 102 lbs. and the customer was impressed with how compact the mattress was in the box. He dragged the box to the bed the mattress was to go on. He took it out of the box and he let the mattress air out for s night. He slept in another room and the next night he slept on the new mattress. He slept fine until 3:00 am and then he woke up with the sweats. He slept off and on until the morning. He slept on the mattress the next night but he put a fan near the mattress to cool it down. The fan got the room to cool so he had to set the fan at a higher speed. He developed an acute tailbone lower backache. He could not afford this injury because he does heavy lifting at his work. He decided to return the product so he contacted Amazon. The rep said since the mattress had human contact that Amazon could not return the product. The rep said his credit card would be fully reimbursed. He could not believe Amazon would give the money back without taking the mattress back. Amazon told him to give the mattress away. The customer rated the product 2-stars. You cannot blame him for giving the product such a low-rating.
The customer says this is the best mattress he has ever had except for a very expensive one his ex got to keep. This mattress did not sink in the middle or lose his form. He has had very good nights of sleep on the mattress and he gave it a 5-star rating. He highly recommends the product. This is a great mattress for the price. the customer says they have the mattress for a month and so far so good. The mattress is firm and the client likes to sleep on firm mattresses.
The customer is disabled and cannot go to the store to try out a mattress to see what it is really like before he would buy it. He tried this mattress and was disgusted with it because it was not firm at all. He showed a picture of himself sitting on the mattress. It sagged a good 6 to 8 inches when the mattress was 13 inches high. It is definitely not a firm mattress. The customer is tired of reading reviews that do not meet his expectations concerning the product. He thinks maybe the reviews are fake because they seem to be wrong most of the time. Being a disabled person he really needs the reviews to accurately reflect the quality of the product. He called Amazon and they said to give the mattress away but we will still fully refund your money. He likes the way Amazon takes care of the customers. The customer rated the product one-star.
The couple bought the mattress 3 years ago and they are disgusted with the product. They slept well on it at first but now they wake up in the morning with aches and pains. The mattress sagged in certain spots making it tougher to sleep. The rotated the mattress to try and alleviate the sags it did not work. They could not flip the mattress over because the thickness on the bottom is different than on the top. The customer said this mattress is only 3-years-old and is a lousy product. The customers rated the product 2-stars. The mattress was a solid mattress and it was easy to set up. The wife and husband were people of average weight so they cannot understand why the mattress would sag. They will not buy the product again and they do not recommend the product.
Benefits and Uses: It is a knitted polyester and tencel blended fabric which will relieve tension on your shoulders and hips. The mattress is great for side sleepers and is so soft you will think you’re sleeping in the clouds. The mattresses 4 layers will have you sleeping in optimal comfort. The top panel supplies you with comfort. The memory gel section alleviates pressure and gives you support while you sleep. The internal breathable layer keeps you cool while you sleep. The foundational layer comes in soft, medium, and firm designations. You order what you want. The mattress comes with a 10-year non-prorated warranty and a 120 night comfort guarantee.
Feedback: The customer said the mattress came in 18 inches and 41 inches square. It came in a heavy plastic shipping bag and it was easy to roll out of the bag. The customer put it on the mattress box and they waited two hours to sleep on the mattress. Contrary to what they had read and heard the mattress had no odor. The customer said they slept well on the mattress and that it was a foam mattress and not a memory mattress. The customer is right it is not a memory mattress but a foam mattress. The customer does not want a memory mattress. The customer rated the product 5-stars.
The customer rated the product 5-stars and said it was very easy to set up. The product is very comfortable and this is all the customer writes. This is not a detailed review and tells us nothing about the quality of the product. Why is it great? Is it firm? Is it soft? The customer does not say why they rated the product 5-stars. The customer does not write if they slept soundly during the night or that they woke up refreshed in the morning. We do not know if the customer woke up in pain or if any previous pains were alleviated. This review has no selling value for future customers. The review is too general and neutral to convince anyone to buy or not to buy the product.
This is not a very positive review because the customer rated the product 3-stars. Which really is an average rating. The customer bought a medium and firm mattress. The couple decided to sleep on the firm mattress and put the medium mattress in the guest room. The wife has had back issues for years and needed the firm support. The husband weighs 200 lbs and needs to find a comfortable position to sleep in. The firm mattress met this requirement. Despite this seemingly positive review, the customer rated the product 3-stars which sends strong mixed signals. The review will not convince people to buy the product.
The customer says the mattress is like sleeping on a cloud as they said in their own words. They tried the mattress in the store and the longer they laid on it the better they liked it. They selected the firm mattress and they have rated the product 5-stars. They wrote the review the day this article was written 7/16/2018. So, it remains to be seen what the customer thinks about the product down the road.
The customer pays the mattress was easy to set up and is comfortable to sleep on but they did not say why it was easy to set up or why it was so comfortable for them to lay on. The customer rated the product 5-stars. Two women wrestled the box mattress upstairs without any extra help. They said once you get it out the box take it right to where it will be slept on. This is because the mattress once it comes out of the box it expands rapidly so you do not have a lot of time to move the mattress. They put it in the guest room but quickly moved it to the master bedroom because it was too good to leave in the guest room. The mattress is nice and the customer rated the product 5-stars.
Benefits and Uses: Hopefully the mattress is worthy of the robust price tag it carries-$3599 which is very expensive. The mattress is 11.8 inches thick and it is made of temperature material. Or it will control the temperature as you sleep giving you a comfortable sleep. It helps to spread the body weight evenly across the bed helping you to sleep without waking up sore in the morning. The cover is made of breathable, cooling material that keeps the surface of the mattress cool. The mattress material is designed with cooling benefits and it draws heat from the body.
Feedback: The customer says the mattress is working very well for them. They use to lay down and could not sleep and on top of it they would wake up sore. Now, with this mattress as soon as they lay down they fall asleep. They wake up in the morning without feeling sore. They would wake up every morning sore when they slept on the other mattress. The client rated it 5-stars. The customer says they wanted to wait before they wrote this review and the finally got around to writing the review. They wanted to sleep on the bed for awhile before making a report and they wrote their report. The customer said they always thought they would sleep on a coil mattress but they bought this one instead.
Benefits and Uses: The mattress is designed to controls the temperature while you sleep and the memory gel contours to the body for a top night of sleep. 2 inches of memory foam sit on 8 inches of density foam with a soft foam cover. Like so many other mattresses the gel foam draws heat away from the body.
Feedback: The customer at first did not like the mattress because it gave her a “sinking” feeling. She sank in the mattress and it felt mushy. She called the rep and the rep said they would send a firmer mattress. But after 3 days the mattress became firmer and the customer fell in love with the mattress and canceled the order for a firmer mattress. The customer kept the medium mattress and she is sleeping very comfortably. Her husband loves the mattress as well and the customer is not waking up hot and sweaty during the night. The customer has rated the mattress 5-stars.
The customer has been using the mattress for quite awhile and it is just as supportive as it was on day one. The twin mattresses are working wonderfully for the customer and the bed doubles as a daybed and a night bed. The customer flips the mattress around but due to construction, the mattress cannot be flipped over. The customer weighs 140 pounds so keep this in mind as you read the review. If you are heavier than this customer’s 140 lbs the bed may not work for you. The Customer says the mattress is as good as some mattresses that may cost a lot more than this one. The customer would buy the mattress again. The customer expects the mattress to last for years. The customer rated the product 5-stars.
The customer bought this mattress to replace a $1200 dollar mattress the client owned before. This mattress is as good as that $1200.00 dollar mattress. The mattress was easy to set up and the customer is the mattress is working very well. The customer sleeps peacefully every night on the mattress. The customer says it is worth 5-stars and will update in the future if any problems arise. The customer said the odor from the mattress dissipated quickly and the customer was glad about this.
Benefits and Uses: The mattress has 2.5 inches of gel material on the top with 8.5 inches of deluxe base material. Supposedly the mattress brings a top luxury hotel feel to the home according to the company. The company claims that 90% of the reviews rated the mattress 5-stars. The mattress is able to relieve pressure points which prevents you from tossing and turning all night. The product will relieve shoulder, back and hip pain. The mattress is supposed to give you a delightful night of sleep.
Feedback: The company did not tell the truth they said 90% of the reviews were 5-stars. There were 77% of the reviews that rated the product 5-stars. Oh, this is great because the customer receives the mattress and the customer opens the box and finds some of the seams on the mattress were ripping on a brand-new mattress. The delivery guy will not take the mattress back because it is opened. The customer needs to return the mattress. What are they supposed to do now? It sure seems like the company cannot be trusted because they lied about how many 5-star reviews they received for the product and now this customer receives a new mattress that has seams ripping.
We have taken a look at some mattresses that will help you if you are a side sleeper and they will help you sleep comfortably with no aches or pains when you wake up in the morning. One downside in the reviews is one of the company’s lied about how many 5-stars reviewed they received for their mattress. It would be to a customer’s advantage to avoid this company. You will see which company it is in the review list above.

Have a look at this Small Part Shelving System that we supplied and installed for an Electrical Wholesale company this week.
This Used Small Part Shelving was the perfect solution for this company who needed to re-organise their space and establish a new stock management system for their warehouse.
Given the size and nature of their products, the customer installed dividers which increased their shelving sections and helped get the most out of their space.
Does this look like a storage system that could help your business?
Book a Free Site Visit today and have one of our team visit your property to assess your space and find the ideal storage solution for you business.

I agree that "well-educated" carries the connotation that you suggest, and I too see no good reason why an engineer with a university degree shouldn't be able to write competently. I would add that it is dangerous to omit humanities from any university curriculum, and I share some of your distain for contemporary education, in which people can earn degrees in subjects that have little content in themselves, such as "education," or in which the content is highly limited and, therefore, of dubious value, such as in "ethnic studies." Anyone who graduates with a university degree should be able to write competently. On the other hand, I prefer the European model in which not everyone is expected to go to university and in which trade schools play a much greater role.
I wonder if Technical Writing should be a university degree or trade school certificate. How about engineering?
the audience and the subject matter.
that would have been regarded as comical.
well educated in basketball may not be able to write a coherent paragraph.
wisdom, which is apparently transcendent.

Expand your clientele, meet and network with potential business partners and make new business contacts.
Learn from seasoned industry experts sharing their knowledge and experience on scaling up productivity, driving profitability and positioning SMEs for sustainability and global Competitiveness.
Reach new markets, improve your corporate identity, showcase and promote your products and services to visitors and buyers.
Explore potential business deals and commercial partnerships with key trade, commerce and investment representatives from around the Country, the USA and the International Community.
Raise brand awareness and generate new business opportunities across multiple market sectors.
Booth prices starts from N50,000 for 2 days. Start Booking Now! Booth prices starts from N50,000 for 2 days. Start Booking Now!
We were privilege to meet with Ebeano Supermarket, Shoppers Delite and Just Rite; we took up from there and today we are on the shelf of these malls. The exhibition showed us the way to do business right and to do it effectively and efficiently. The exhibition also made room for us to meet various investors, who have tremendously been of help to the growth of Hyst Global Business Ltd.
I exhibited at the African Food and Products Exhibition 2018. The Event was a wonderful one and an eye-opener for not just me but for other exhibitors and attendees. From the conference sessions, I acquired knowledge on exportation of goods. The AFPE 2018 was the door opener to my exquisite Zobo Business. I thought to myself that since the Exhibition was for African Food and Products, Zobo is an African drink so I decided to make and sell for the Exhibition. Just like magic, amidst my other products, the zobo made super sales. Now I have a branded Zobo drink.
The AFPE 2018 was great, it was an opportunity to have a firsthand understanding of the challenges facing SMEs, helping us know what products they needed and how they can take advantage of our service offerings. The AFPE 2019 gave us a chance to partner with many of them.
It was an amazing experience, my business was a month old and I didn’t know anyone. It was the first time I got to be in public and I appreciate the opportunity to be exposed. Coming to the exhibition boosted my sales and created awareness for me when people didn’t know me. I have got contacts from the exhibition and they have formed part of my customer base.
Lagos is a commercial hub and it was important for us to share with the market. There has always been a great need to take our products and services to our end users, offering them values and benefits and we achieved that at the African Food & Products Exhibition 2018.

As I wrote in this post, I have found a few tools have made it easier for me to be successful on the ketogenic, low carb/high fat diet (LCHF). From measuring food to measuring blood ketones, to measuring my activity the right device can really help.
Some tools have nothing to do with food. Some days my greatest victory is getting my steps in.
To share the items I've enjoyed using along the way, I've created a "KETO TOOLS" page. I'll add more items as I incorporate them and have had a chance to use them for a while.
I'll be posting about my experiences and opinions, little reviews if you will, on the items. If you have a favorite tool, share! I'm not a gadget fiend, but who doesn't love something that make things easier?
One doesn't need any of these - or any other tools - to be successful at keto. The most important thing is to keep carbs under about 20 grams per day. So keeping it simple is great. Just wanted to pass along what I've used.

A simple framework for developing a concept beneficiation flow sheet. China Iron, Copper Ore Flotation Machine, flow sheet of the beneficiation process. and vanadiumbearing slag by using a titaniferous . Advances in Low Grade Iron Ore Beneficiation.
beneficiation plant in milling process prices of grinding beneficiation plant in milling process. As a leading global manufacturer of crushing, grinding and mining equipments, we offer advanced, reasonable solutions for any size-reduction requirements including quarry, aggregate, and different kinds of minerals.
The process is similar to the Hall-Hroult process, which uses electrolysis to produce aluminum, but operates at a higher operating temperature to enable production of liquid copper.
Yantai Orient Metallurgical Design and Research Institute Co., Ltd was founded in 2002 and own metallurgical designing and researching professional qualification authorized by Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, mainly work on mines design as core technical strength of Jinpeng Group.
Ore dressing means the production process in which the extracted ore goes through several The equipment of mineral processing cover feeder, crusher, ball mill, classifier, There are two kinds of ball mill, grate type and overall type due to.
Copper ore beneficiation plant. Different beneficiation process is designed according to different ore. Even if the same type of ore in different mining plant, the beneficiation process is also. Read more; Gypsum mining equipment.
Advances in Low Grade Iron Ore Beneficiation. installing the low grade iron ore beneficiation plant in this region. All these plant will be same region, plants are planned with different flow sheets.
advanced beneficiation process for iron or. Industry News Ore beneficiation process introduction Ore Beneficiation Advanced ore beneficiation process As the mining industry's rapid development in recent years, Weakly magnetic iron ore beneficiation Beneficiation Outotec .
Copper beneficiation plant flotation machine sf20 in new design Shicheng Jinchuan Best copper ore flotation machine/ floatation cell/ flotation machine price . SF copper ore froth flotation / floatation cell machine popular in India, Asia.
Allanore lab's new molten sulfide electrolysis method better handles trace metals and other impurities that come with the copper, allowing for separation of multiple elements at high purity from the same production process.

The rich get richer and the poor get poorer eh?
Or is it the rich think different and play by a different set of rules?
Do the rich take responsibility and action?
Poor people believe 'Life happens to me.' Rich people are committed to be rich.
Poor people WANT to be rich. Rich people think big.
Poor people think small. Rich people focus on opportunities.
Poor people focus on obstacles. Rich people are willing to promote themselves and their value.
Poor people think negatively about selling and promotion.
Poor people are closed to new ideas..
Do You think rich or poor?

I am experienced graphic designer, specialized in company identity and logo design. Feel free to contact me!
"The design was clean and zeitgeist, the designer followed and incorporated our vision."
"Great to work with, as always. Thank you :)"
"War sehr nett und hatte alles so umgesetzt wie ich es gerne haben wollte "
"Auf alle Wünsche eingegangen, super Ergebnis!"
"The only designer of the competition that not only delivered what I asked for in the brief, but had creative ideas as well. Very happy with the end result. "
"Morgan is great to work with and surprises you with new ways to present your company through design."
"Second time working with Morgan_99, very professional and is easily accommodating, prompt and has excellent communication. An easy 5 stars! Thanks again "
"Very quick to respond to queries!"
"Amazing design! We are thrilled."
"Amazing, creative, knows how to visualize your idea and bring it to life!"
"Amazing and memorable, overall very creative! Thank you!"
"Working with Morgan, was a great experience since day 1! Always willing to make up to tiniest details and modifications that i requested, very accesible in his working hours and a top designer. "
"Great design! Great use of color and illusion."
"he has fully reached the brief"
"What an amazing experience. Very impressed with the process and quality of designers. I feel they understood exactly what our company wanted and needed. Plus fast response time."
"We love our new logo! Designer was very responsive."
"I love the design Morgan_99 made. He tried different versions and it suits my ideas. Thank you!"
"I wanted a design that represented the concept of my podcast, not just a picture. Morgan_99 was the only designer whose work didn't look like taped together clip art, responded quickly, and understood exactly how to do what I needed the art to do. I d..."
"Did a great job trying different ideas and iterating with us."
"Ist super auf meine Wünsche eingegangen. Insgesamt schnell, unkompliziert, freundlich und DAS super Logo, wie ich es wollte. Kann ich nur weiterempfehlen."
"This was the second job Morgan_99 has done for me and she has exceeded my expectations, such a pleasure to work with, completely understood what I wanted and quick to respond. In one word - awesome. Would highly recommend. Can't wait for the next pro..."
"Created a great logo for a new product for our company. "
"It was great working with Morgan_99, fast response and turn around, nothing was too much trouble. Would definitely work with Morgan_99 again."
"Morgan is a great help. Love his work. "
"It work was great and quick respones."
"I've been a hassle for her lately, and she's been very patient ... worked through things with me ... and got things done. Always happy."
"Morgan does a great job responding to my feedback while also bring his/her design perspective the job. Always responsive, as well. We've done a lot of work together and will continue."
"Always fast, always flexible, always good."
"Everything went well, because the designer suggested a nice logo and redesigned it for us or created alternatives in a very short time. We are pretty happy with the result."
"As always, Morgan is fast and precise. And when I come with last minute changes, it's handled."
"Hi Morgan, loved the simplistic approach, representative of what Modcepts has to offer. Great design."
"Thanks Morgan for another great design. Appreciate the quick turn around time & quality of work. Highly recommended From the team at Rip It Up Hiit Squad"
"Excellent quality, great designer to work with!"
"Morgan_99 is so great to work with! She comes up with exactly what we are looking for, and if it needs tweaking in any way she does it. Super fast to communicate with and speedy turnaround - like within the day! We appreciate her and plan to use her ..."
"I'm very satisfy from our collaboration. Thank you"
"Great job, easy to talk to and very quick in response times. Nailed the design, thanks Morgan! "
"Always good work and to my specifications."
"Excellent experience working with Morgan_99! We are very happy with our logo!"
"First rate in every way. Responded to every request and added creativity and new ideas that became the top pick! "
"Super Design, schnelle Änderungen, viele Alternativangebote und Beachtung von Details. Auf jeden Fall zu empfehlen!"
"Morgan_99 works with me on all my changes - has great ideas and is willing to accept mine, too."
"Always a great job. Great ideas, but respects what I want done, as well."
"Always happy with Morgan-99's work."
"Excellent design. You came up with something better than we could have imagined ourselves. Thank you!"
"Morgan 99 did a great job for me. She/He listened to my feedback and incorporated it into the new updates. Thee finished product was high quality. "
"I'm a christian singer songwriter and I was looking for a logo for my name. I am very pleased with my product and the process. Morgan_99 did a great job interpreting my suggestions and recommendations. I appreciated the speed in which the changes wer..."
"Morgan_99 was a pleasure to work with in the logo design contest for Kenilworth Chiropractic. Very responsive and professional in communication and delivery. I would highly recommend Morgan_99 for logo and brand identity projects."

HOW do we explain why 5.5m French voters in the first round of the presidential elections voted for far-right parties that are xenophobic, anti-semitic, racist and ultra-nationalist? Sounding off about the wrongness of the vote will not help understand the reasons underlying their choice. Everybody in politics needs to begin an urgent, thorough and much-needed self-criticism.
The vote may have been a valuable wake-up call for France if it opens the eyes of party leaders and revives the debate on how to build a nation based on justice and solidarity. What vanished in April was the comforting thought that although everything was changing in the world outside, in French politics everything could stay the same; that two ageing parties, the Gaullists and the Socialists, could share power as they had done for 30 years.
People have sensed for some time that these two political forces are worn out. Their historic mission seems to have ended. Each in its own way gives the impression of an organisation going nowhere, with crumbling infrastructures, no organisation or programme, no ideology, no identity and no compass for the journey ahead.
Previous elections had already shown that neither party was capable of addressing the needs of millions of people who are genuinely frightened by the new realities of the post-industrial world that has emerged after the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the end of the cold war. The disposable workers, the underclasses of the banlieues, the long-term unemployed, the excluded, the many people pushed into early retirement, the young people in precarious jobs, the families on the brink of poverty. For all these, the recent past has brought years of fear and anxiety, with many familiar landmarks apparently gone forever.
The Socialist party in particular, with almost no working-class people in its local organisations and several leaders in the supertax bracket, gives the impression that it lives on another planet, light years from the experiences of ordinary people. It has shown itself remarkably insensitive to what Daniel Mermet describes as “the sufferings of under-France”.
What about the right? Some conservative politicians see the far right as untouchable, but others have been happy to do electoral deals with it. The former liberal leader, Michel Poniatowski, recently wondered in public whether it was “any more immoral to accept the votes of communists, who murdered millions of people in Europe, than those of the National Front” (1). This perverse logic allowed Christian Democrat leaders of the Union pour la démocratie française (UDF) to accept National Front votes in 1998 to be elected to the presidency of five French regions.
While this plague infected the inner workings of France’s political institutions, was it reasonable to imagine that France would remain immune to the upsurge of far-right politics in its immediate neighbours (see Fascism isn’t what it used to be, by Jean-Yves Camus, in this issue)? Or likely that France would be the exception when, like other European countries, its social fabric has been violently rent in the name of modernity: by liberalism and globalisation, European unification, the decline in national sovereignty, the abandonment of the franc, the disappearance of national borders, the hegemony of the United States, multiculturalism, loss of identity and the crisis of the welfare state?
All this happened in the context of the end of the industrial era and technological transformations that led to widespread economic insecurity and terrible social malaise. In such a context, with competition raised to the status of a natural imperative, an increase in violence and criminality was inevitable. The abruptness and brutality of these changes meant that uncertainties are accumulating as horizons have been lost, the world seems less clear, and history appears to defy logic and understanding. Ordinary people have felt abandoned by governments of both right and left; unsurprisingly, since the press describes them as corrupt, as liars and cheats.
Many people feel lost and panicky; as Tocqueville put it,"since the past no longer illuminates the present, the human spirit walks in darkness". Old magicians have returned to conjure with this new obscurantism, this breeding-ground of fear, confusion and resentment. Their rhetoric is demagogic, authoritarian and racist; they talk of a return to the old values (work, family, motherland) and blame foreigners, Arabs and Jews for all the disorders, social problems and insecurities. Immigrants are an easy target, always available, because they symbolise social upheavals, and among the lowest-income earners they are seen as unwanted competition.
Although it is absurd, hateful and even criminal, the rhetoric of the National Front has long appealed to more than one in four French people according to the opinion polls (2). On 21 April it gained the electoral approval of millions (30% of the unemployed, 24% of workers, 20% of young people and 17% of employers).
The Republican awakening expressed in street demonstrations all over France translated into anti-Le Pen votes on 5 May. Neo-fascism will not be voted in during the parliamentary elections in June either. But once the moment of fear has passed, if the parties carry on as before, with privatisation, dismantling public services, creating pension funds and accepting sackings to keep shareholders happy, if they continue to deny people’s desires for a society that is fairer, more fraternal, more based on solidarity — then there is no guarantee that fascism, in alliance with the usual collaborators, will not win next time.
(1) Libération, 20 March 1998.
(2) Le Monde, 13 April 1996.

While petroleum is yet to come under the GST, since the dynamic pricing regime came into effect pan-India from last month, petrol prices have fallen by over Rs 2 a litre till date and of diesel by more than Re 1.
Petrol prices per litre have decreased by Rs 2.35, and of diesel by Rs 1.02, ever since the daily revision in rates was implemented throughout the country from June 16. On that day, petrol cost Rs 65.48 a litre in Delhi, while diesel sold for Rs 54.49 per litre.
The accumulated daily revision leading to a decrease of over Rs 2 in petrol, for instance, is the result of the recent trend in global prices.

If you aren't already familiar with their dippy designs, let me introduce you to Liberated Heart; the psychedelic pioneers who have a variety of prints exclusive to their label. I've followed them since their beginnings and it's great to see them doing so well! Everything is created in Byron Bay (Australia) which is the home to many of my all time favourite clothing lines... I'm yet to visit, but I'll definitely be going one day.
This particular skirt is from their 'Icelandic Summer' collection, which personifies pastels and gorgeous muted tones. Unfortunately, it's not available on their site anymore, but there are plenty more prints to choose from; each one bolder than the last. As it's all shipped directly from Aus, you may end up sending a bit more on shipping fees to the UK, but I'd say it's totally worth it: a.) for the quality & b.) because who else is crazy enough to spend that much on shipping?! You can rest assured that you'll be the only psychedelic princess rocking these prints at the festival.
No other shoes could have done this skirt more justice, I absolutely adore these iridescent flatforms from Missguided. I'm already quite tall, but they elongate the leg in an extremely flattering way. Most importantly, they're still super comfy! I gave up on heels a looong time ago. I know it looks like I searched the interweb far and wide to find a matching hat for this look, but I promise you it was a complete coincidence! I randomly came across it when clearing out my old room which hasn't been inhabited for about 10 years... result!

At MaxDumpster, we strive to bring you the best service at the best price available. We have a wide selection of dumpster sizes in stock in Poteet, TX, with flexible & timley pickup and delivery. Give us a call today for all your dumpster rental and roll off needs.
Presently there needn't be any kind of lengthy on-line form to help fill out, often. A few 6 Yard Dumpster in Poteet, TX businesses operate in nearly all states, check out a compact variety and see where your current nearest rental spot is. Frequently, a dumpster should be used after a home renovation, for tidy up after development work, which is when a roll off dumpster organization is the perfect option. Delivered, next picked up proper at your spot, is the simplest way for this type of rental.
These along with issues will certainly influence the operation of 6 Yard Dumpster in Poteet, TX, regardless of the nature of the undertaking. Ask hard questions, desire clear replies, knowing that there are many choices with regards to renting roll off of containers.
Because you consider renting one, you have to remember that you may have to pay some fee that you should place your rented dumpster in a road in the metropolis, this is especially significant if you are a store or resort owner. You need to get a make it possible for to use it. Addititionally there is the possibility of a person having your rented dumpster collect over it should. Due to the fact each has a unique tonnage, ensure you do not exceed to limit, or you could end up paying an extra price.
If you live inside Virginia, Dc or Maryland than you reside in a stunning area therefore you want to make it beautiful. Your location is satisfied with the beauty that will surrounds these people and you many want to servicing it. Where ever you live you want your home along with neighborhood kept clean and beautiful.
For making things even easier, make sure you rent a compact dumpster that supports to two a lot of debris. It may be wise to rent a dumpster that is in wheels if you happen to need to go it in one area of your current driveway to an alternative area of your current driveway. You'll be able to request from the company that will rents the dumpsters to send skids along to protect your current driveway. This gives you a a feeling of relief realizing that your provided driveway won't have any harm done to it.
Before hiring a 30 yard 6 Yard Dumpster in Poteet, TX, you need to be sure to are following all the rules of your area. For example, should you be cleaning out your current apartment and you are the occupant, you must ensure that your complex has enough living space to place the bigger dumpster in the parking area. Nevertheless, when you cleaning each of our home or business, you need to make sure that your metropolis laws permits keeping this on the street. Do not misjudge the size of these types of dumpsters, as they call for plenty of living space. Homeowner's interactions or equivalent organizations might not exactly allow it. Even though, you can find a ideal solutions for all, but it's preferable to seek approval in advance as compared to waiting along with watching.
A neighborhood 6 Yard Dumpster in Poteet, TX can be reputable, affordable as well as the best solution for all dumpster needs. Whether or not you want to take away construction spend or even regular debris, community dumpsters will be the treatment for all those requirements. Local renting ensure that every one of the companies involved with this business produce high quality providers to their clients be it the roll- off renting or box rentals. All one needs to caused by get providers locally is to simple phone the local dumpster renting and the assistance will be transported to you on period. A local 6 Yard Dumpster in Poteet, TX (LDR) also offers simple procedures that one must undergo just before getting the assistance. That is one only calls for to make one call to your LDR and then link to a organization that will give you the services with virtually no hassles including filling associated with lengthy types and proposal of midst men inside accessing the firms. The charges that is required is actually spelled out and then there are no concealed fees along with gimmicks ahead of the provision of the service. The particular LDR enables fast delivery of service providers that usually are within a person's local area thus avoiding unwanted delays. With the LDR the price of the service is in addition considerable fair, price is vital to any provided service or product as well as the LDR ensure that the box rentals and in some cases roll off of rentals usually are reasonably priced.
When you have a major remodel or reconstruction project, possessing one giant dumpster means you just have one ways of removing the squander. Forget about a number of trips to the actual landfill plus the fees they demand. Have a 6 Yard Dumpster in Poteet company drop off a dumpster in your front yard and fill it up. You save income by chopping back on gas, unnecessary journeys to the landfill, and coping with the material. And they also will choose and dump your dirt for you. The very next time you have a reconstruction project, make certain to call a 6 Yard Dumpster in Poteet company to help in keeping your squander to a minimum.
This sort of trash possesses to go for speedy clearance which usually otherwise will certainly put you to several problems. The garbage piled up during these scenarios will be very bulky in nature and difficult to handle. Immediate settlement of these big tons of junk not only maintains you on the actual safe mode from the whole trash removal problems plus creates a setting to step ahead of time to regain the standard position.
Commonly, roll away dumpsters are booked out in line with the amount of junk they can carry in terms of inner cubic yards, nevertheless heavier supplies will make the actual dumpster reach the edge long before it becomes completely filled. The actual volume of weight which can be put into virtually any container will depend on the size of the actual bin in question, so underneath is an outline of the standard roll away container rental sizes, along with their highest weight allowances.
For your safeguard and safety, find a rubbish removal company with trucks and staff that are insured and licensed. Confirm that the actual hauler is insured and licensed. The hauler should be fully covered by workman's compensation, common liability, and auto insurance.
Fundamentally, what it boils down to is that the much more local a company is, the greater they're going to cherish providing an excellent experience for every single customer. But they also will also be much more equipped to accomplish that. They possibly use a neighborhood facility, and that means you won't be spending to ship the trash much, far away. As being a bonus, you may be putting income into your personal, local economic climate rather than just eating an already big corporation. If you're still unpleasant, just offer the business a phone call; if they may take the time to converse to you before you are satisfied, chances are that the rest of the experience will probably be just as pleasurable.
If you are on the opposite stop of the array and bought a previously owned property that needs a yard clean up, you can also rent a next day dumpster. You might have gotten an agreement on a property you want to your house that you bought due to foreclosed. Too bad the actual yard can be a complete clutter and disaster. The lawn will not look like it has been wiped out once you get their hands on it when you finally rent a following day dumpster.
You can save income by seeking a 6 Yard Dumpster in Poteet yourself, a high level homeowner, and contractors may have learned where the ideal 6 Yard Dumpster in Poteet sites are usually. If you are a first timer or maybe someone hunting to save some money, then the few rental web sites online can certainly quote a good selling price and get a nearby dumpster of the suitable size to your blog as soon as possible. Nearly all demo substance that's taken from a home may be divided into about three types -- devices and cabinets which may be recycled, actual junk, and supplies which can be separated out in to separate supplies which may after that be mailed off to the actual recycler.
The following types of dumpsters that you can get are throw off dumpsters. They are the dumpsters that are most in-demand in the rubbish disposal project. They are distinctly designed to manage huge a great deal of waste generated in the large projects including construction, household renovation, and also yard clear and structure projects. Garbage accumulated upon completion of most of these projects doesn't only be incredibly huge, but also very ungainly in nature. The roll away from dumpsters is usually mounted on wheels in order to easily be folded on to the pickups. These throw off dumpsters staying enclosed together with the double gates, one at the top and one towards the bottom will aid easy dumping into the dumpster even so huge it is. Not all the particular roll away from dumpsters will match every kind of the project; the idea differs from project to project. A 10yard dumpster is a best match for a home renovation project, a 30 property for structure project and a 40 property for industrial disposal.
Renting a dumpster provides the simplest way to eliminate trash during a home project. Maryland's cities offer limited rubbish pickup. This specific trash collection is limited in order to bagged rubbish that is released to the road in a trash can. The trash have to be separated according to local trying to recycle laws also it must not meet or exceed a certain rubbish bag control. This control varies from location to location within Annapolis; you must check your local trash collection regulations as a way to comply with their own trash collection standards. Dumpster leases in Annapolis are available as a result of online buying and can be delivered the very next day.
Once you are done in putting in an order with garbage rental company specifying your requirements, you are going to receive an instantaneous price quote from your representative of the business stating information of rates. The professional experts with the company possibly helps you when choosing the right sort of dumpster that fits within your tailored prerequisites.
Attic, Car port or Entire house Clean Out: The can help you full your household clear job more quickly by placing it more detailed the area to get cleaned. What's more, it eliminates the particular eyesore and also safety hazard created when piling the particular bulky goods & trash way up at the curb. These dumpsters is usually filled with aged furniture, clothes, broken toys, old mattresses, car and also bike areas, carpeting, loft and storage area debris or another type of general household rubbish.
You may want to furthermore clean out your barn. You can rent a compact, medium or maybe large dumpster to have the job done. You might need a large dumpster should you have a lot of crap that will squeeze into ten pickup truck loads. 12 pickup plenty or 4 tons could be the limit to get a large dumpster. If your items meet or exceed four a lot, you will need to rent yet another dumpster to finish the position off. In the event you only need in relation to five collection loads compared to a medium dumpster is designed for you. The medium dumpster will hold up to about three tons of crap or dust. A small dumpster will hold up to two tons of dust.

The change made by the DPC to NORMAM05/DPC Annex 4-A regarding the regulations for the transfer of personnel offshore is a significant step in moving towards creating an offshore environment that is safe for all workers to get to and from work.
The Brazilian Navy's Directorate of Ports and Coast (DPC) has recently altered the Maritime Authority Standards for the Approval of Material (NORMAN-05/DPC). The most important changes were alteration of item 0408 (Personnel Transfer Basket) and insertion of Addendum 4-A (Rules Governing Personnel Transfer Basket).
According to the DPC, the purpose of the alterations is to help to safeguard human life in offshore operations and to fine tune the safety technical requirements for the manufacturing of personnel transfer baskets - a concern of the Public Prosecution Service for Labor issues, which wants to improve worker safety in transfers between vessels and platforms.
NORMAN-05/DPC Addendum 4-A specifies that the structural features must be able to protect passengers from lateral, vertical and head impacts and must be made of stainless steel bars of tubes and enable buoyant material to be attached around it, so that an entire fully loaded basket assembly is able to float.
In order to meet the Brazilian legislation, Reflex Marine has launched the FROG-6, an operational tool that is able to provide a safe option for personnel transfers. The FROG-6 has been subjected to a variety of impact tests to verify its structural integrity and shock-absorbing capability and demonstrated its ability to self-align and float in water, something that is not possible with the traditional rope baskets.
Sandra Antonovic, the company's Chief Operating Officer (COO), says that, "it is a safer method than the traditional rope basket, because it protects the passengers in the event of a lateral or vertical impact, fall or heavy landing. Furthermore, the buoyancy panels enable the device to float and self-align."
Antonovic points out that the device is able to transfer injured people in safety, protecting them from falls, immersion and lateral and vertical impacts, confirming that, "The FROG-6 is also a safe and versatile transfer device in Medevac (medical evacuation) mode."
According to the executive, this change reinforces Brazil's position and desire to ensure an offshore environment that has minimal operational risks. Antonovic says that, "By prioritising the safety of offshore workers, Brazil is placing itself alongside Norway, the UK and Canada - countries in the vanguard of ensuring that all workers return home safely."

These mini message treat bags would also be sweet to use for birthday party treats, wedding favors, and church or school events. I designed them to be gender neutral, too.
Finished interior size is approximately 4.75 x 2.75 inches.
You can download the printable treat bag templates shown in this post at the end of the tutorial.
Once you have downloaded the printable file, you can select which treat bags you want to print by printing only the pages you want in your printer dialog box. If you want to print all the colors, just print the whole document on your 8.5x11 text weight paper.
Once you have all your templates printed, you will want to score them. You can get away with not scoring if you fold them just right, but scoring makes it easier to fold accurately, and I recommend scoring for best results.
Using your mat, ruler, and scoring tool, line up your ruler along scoring lines and score.
Do this for all the folding areas on the template.
Next, you will need to cut out your template along the outside border of the design.
To get your mini valentine treat bags ready to glue, fold and press all scoring lines until your template looks like the one shown here.
Using your glue stick or crafter’s tape, run adhesive along the the side.
Press to hold it together.
Do the same for the bottom of the bag, and fold up.
Turn your assembled mini valentine treat bag over and fill with your favorite small candies or non- candy valentine items such as crayons.
Put a dab of tape on the top flap to close. Then, choose which faux “paper tape” you want to use. There is a solid color, or a blank one you can write on. You can also accessorize your tape with glue and colored glitter, or use matching colored washi tape instead!

The Kearny Mesa Swimming Pool is now much more inviting for disabled visitors.
Crews striped extra-wide parking spots to accommodate vans for the disabled, and a ramp was added for those who can’t climb the stairs.
Locker rooms have been gutted to widen restroom, shower and dressing stalls for wheelchair users. The outdoor shower area has been rebuilt to eliminate a step, and easy-to-turn handles will be installed on doors.
Throughout San Diego, a growing number of public buildings and streets are getting retrofitted as the city steps up spending to tackle a backlog of projects to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
San Diego used to spend about $1.5 million a year on such projects. Now it’s spending $10 million more per year on curb cuts, ramps, audible signals and detectable warning tiles at street intersections, among other improvements to remove barriers to access.
Mayor Jerry Sanders has committed to spending the additional $50 million over five years to improve access, in part by allocating proceeds from the sales of surplus city properties.
“Before the mayor came into the office, we were just doing a trickle of projects. We are doing a lot of projects now,” said David Jarrell, deputy chief operating officer for public works.
Advocates for the disabled said the improvements would help cut down the city’s liability. Cities across the country have been sued for failure to improve access. San Diego was sued in 1997 by disabled residents who claimed they had been denied equal access to Qualcomm Stadium. The lawsuit was settled after the city agreed to spend $5.25 million to equip the stadium with new elevators, ramps, parking spaces and seating.
Bill Harris, a Sanders’ spokesman, said the desire to do the right thing – not legal exposure – drove the mayor’s commitment to ADA compliance. “It’s not about avoiding litigation. It’s about ensuring equal access,” Harris said.
According to the city, more than 500 curb ramps were installed in the past two years. About $19 million of projects are in design stages and an additional $4 million in jobs are under construction.
Facilities being retrofitted range from police stations and recreation centers to branch libraries and teen centers.
Cindi Jones, director of the Center for an Accessible Society in San Diego, said improvements have been made, but the city still has a long way to go. She uses a scooter and her husband uses a wheelchair.
In South Park, where she and her husband have lived for 30 years, a curb cut was installed on their block about a year ago, Jones noted. She’s looking forward to more curb cuts in her neighborhood.
The city’s former disability services coordinator, Linda Woodbury, had said the city needed to spend $500 million on ADA compliance, but the mayor’s office has disputed that figure. Woodbury was fired in 2006, a day after Sanders first proposed spending $50 million more on access projects. The city later settled a wrongful termination suit.
Louis Frick, executive director of Access to Independence in San Diego, said the access features benefit society as a whole.
“You see people all the time with baby strollers, delivery truck drivers, where they are using the curb cuts to get up and down the sidewalks,” he said.

Maintain the exterior. Don't let your property look neglected. Make arrangements to have your lawn mowed, or in winter, your driveway shoveled. Trim branches that could fall and damage your roof during a storm, and clean out clogged gutters to avoid water damage. Check that exterior lights are working.
Take precautions with the interior. Install working deadbolts on exterior doors, and make sure all windows are securely locked. Set your thermostat at a constant temperature (high enough in winter to prevent freezing) and replace the thermostat's battery. Seal up pet doors to keep out pests, animals, and other potential intruders.
Enhance the vacant property's security. Add motion-sensor lights and entry alarms. Keep bushes trimmed to remove potential hiding places for burglars. Close the curtains and blinds to prevent people from seeing in. Use timers for lights, and consider adding a unit that simulates a flickering TV to deter criminals.
Round up support. Enlist neighbors or friends for additional vacant property protection. Ask them to alert you of any concerns and occasionally park in the driveway to help make your home seem occupied. Notify the police and the fire department that the house will be vacant, and leave your phone number with them.
Protect your investment. Be aware that if your home is vacant for a month or more, your homeowners insurance may not cover losses that occur while it's vacant. You may need to add a vacancy endorsement to your policy. Talk with your State Farm® agent about your options.

ATS PageSpeed is an open-source PageSpeed optimization plugin for the ATS proxy server.
Apache Traffic Server (ATS) is a fast, scalable and extensible HTTP caching proxy server. Formerly a commercial product, Yahoo! donated it to the Apache Foundation, and it is now an Apache TLP. Google PageSpeed tools analyze and optimize a website's performance following web best practices.
We-Amp created a open-source web server module which automatically applies the PageSpeed best practises to a website served by Apache Traffic Server.
More information available on www.atspagespeed.com.

You guys, I am so behind!
I’ve had Amazon Prime for years, but I used it primarily (pun, sorry) for the free shipping, video streaming, Kindle Lending, and Prime Day sales.
But I was totally missing out!
Did you know about Prime Reading? You probably do. As I said, I’m behind. I recently went camping and wanted to load up my Kindle with things to read by the fire. While I was browsing, I came across this new-to-me-but maybe-not-to-the-rest-of-the-world feature and about danced a jig.
Tons of free things to read! I loaded up and took my devices to the mountains. There’s nothing like relaxing by a fire in total darkness with a nice book to read.
The fire where actual Prime Reading took place.
Okay, now back to Prime Reading itself. If you’re already a member of the Amazon Prime program, it’s included at no additional charge (unlike the Kindle Unlimited program). You don’t even have to own a Kindle. All you need is a device of your choosing and the free reading apps.
Boom! You get access to tons of books and magazines. And they are actually items you’d want to read! Seriously, go look. You’ll find something to enjoy or mock (whatever suits you).
Choose your books or magazines from the Prime Reading selection.
When you’re done, return the item.
You can check out 10 items at a time! TEN!
Even if you hate the book, you’re not losing any money. It’s risk-free reading from your couch. No trip to the library needed.
I didn’t know about Prime Reading, but it makes me much more willing to pay the new, higher price. And it makes me wonder what else I’m missing out on.
So are you already using Prime Reading? If so, what should I check out next? Or are you just as behind as me?
I’m so behind also! I think I used it once last year but was confused and thought it was Kindle Unlimited. I saw the 10 books thing but didn’t understand when I couldn’t check out another book (which was the K-unlimited) I still probably haven’t returned that first book! Ha!
That’s exactly what I thought! I didn’t know Prime Reading was a different thing. I morphed it with Kindle Unlimited and the Kindle Owner’s Lending Library. There are so many ways to get lots of books for a good price!

In your personal folders, you can create your own folders and customize view options based on the contents. In the toolbar of the Pictures and Music folders, Windows provides buttons with file management activities specifically related to the contents of the folder, such as Slide Show in the Pictures folder, or Play All in the Music folders. When you create a new folder, you can customize it for documents, pictures, music, and videos by applying a folder template, which is a collection of folder tasks and viewing options. When you apply a template to a folder, you apply specific features to the folder, such as specialized tasks and viewing options for working with documents, pictures, music, and videos.
Click the Customize tab for a folder.
Click the Optimize this folder for list arrow, and then select the type of folder you want: General Items, Documents, Pictures, Videos, or Music.
Select the Also apply this template to all subfolders check box to apply the option.
To select a picture for display on the folder icon, click Choose File.
To restore the default picture for the folder, click Restore Default.
See “Customizing the Taskbar” on page 118 for information on modifying the taskbar.

Use the Remove-EdgeSubscription cmdlet to remove Edge Subscription from the Exchange organization and from the subscribed Edge Transport server.
Synchronization of information from Active Directory to the Active Directory Lightweight Directory Services (AD LDS) instance stops.
All the accounts stored in AD LDS are removed.
The Edge Transport server is removed from the list of source servers for any Send connector.
If the Edge Transport server is the only source server for any Send connector, the Send connector is removed.
This example removes Edge Subscription for the Edge Transport server named Edge1.
If you don't specify the Force switch, the command will inform you that the removal of the replicated recipient data from AD LDS can take a long time and will give you the option to cancel the operation.
The Identity parameter specifies the identity of the Edge Transport server for which you want to remove Edge Subscription. The identity is expressed as the host name of the Edge Transport server.

The Retreat Teaser from The Retreat on Vimeo.
them, including in the arts, education in a whole range of human activities.
I've been to Ireland three times and have never gotten to experience anything like I did on The Retreat. Getting to visit the studios - and homes! - of iconic designers, and chat with them like old friends was so special and something I would never have been able to do on my own. The whole week flew by in a whirlwind of gorgeous scenery, luxury accommodations, delicious food and lots of laughter. The Retreat is a treat for the senses and a once-in-a-lifetime experience that will stay with me forever.
Celebrated international designer Grania Murray has almost magically redefined travel with The Retreat. She takes you behind closed doors to meet the best designers, artists, craftsman, chefs and experts in Ireland. It’s a feast for the five senses, providing an immersive intimacy with a glorious country and its people, at a luxurious level that simply cannot be found anywhere else.
The Retreat is a trip unlike any other, combining exquisite Irish arts and fashion, luxurious accommodations, and mouth watering cuisine with beautiful Irish scenery and culture. Grania has crafted a truly unique experience, perfect for those who can appreciate passion and detail. My experience on The Retreat is one that will stay close to my heart forever. Gaining exclusive access to some of Ireland’s top artisans and designers and experiencing their craft in a personal way changed the way I viewed art and its entire creative process. I cannot recommend The Retreat enough - you will leave Ireland feeling full in more ways than one!

A number of books and articles investigated the relationship between corporate and advertising interests and news coverage. In the May/June 2000 issue of Columbia Journalism Review, Lowell Bergman wrote an article entitled, "Network television news: With fear and favor." Bergman sums up his findings by saying, "Executives of the network news divisions say that they will report any story of public interest and import without fear or favor, without considering its potential commercial consequences. They say that, but they do not believe it" (p. 50).
Karl Idsvoog's journal article, "TV sitting on stories to improve ratings," claims that "the decision on when (or if) to run a piece is no longer determined just by asking is the report concise, clear, and well produced; is it fair, thorough and accurate? There are now more critical questions. What's the lead-in? Where do we place the promotion? Will it deliver better numbers on Monday or Wednesday?" (Idsvoog, p. 38). However, he adds that "in the long run, adhering to a higher standard of ethics delivers a higher standard of performance" (p. 39).
Carol Guensburg examines the ethical dilemmas of news reporting that involve the media agency's owner in the December 1998 issue of American Journalism Review (p. 10). In "When the story is about the owner," she determines that it is up to the individual journalists and news operations to continue reporting important stories, regardless of the impact they may have on corporate or advertising interests (Guensburg, p. 11).
American Journalism Review's October 1998 article by Jane Kirtley, "Second-guessing news judgment," looks at the issue of FCC regulations of news coverage (p. 86). She notes that having the governmental agency get involved in news coverage would likely lead to the consequence that "broadcasters will be discouraged from covering controversial issues at all" (Kirtley, p. 86).

Many students have never been to a museum before. While we want children to respect the museum and its artwork, tours emphasize interaction—we encourage students to talk about what they see and ask questions. Tours aren’t a lecture—they are a chance for your class to explore and express themselves.
Before your visit, lead a class discussion to help the students determine how to be safe, engage and have fun in the museum.
What does it means to be safe in a museum?
• Keep three feet away from the art, walls and pedestals.
Why? The artwork is old, fragile, and irreplaceable—it is our job to keep it in good shape for the community to enjoy for generations to come.
• Leave food, gum and drinks in the designated place.
Why? Food can damage art and can attract bugs that destroy art.
• Walk carefully and avoid running or climbing. No one wants to bump and knock over the art or temporary walls.
• Take as many photos as you want—without a flash. Light may damage some artwork.
• Look quietly and carefully when directed.
• Think of questions you have about art.
• Raise your hand and ask your questions!
• Listen to what everyone has to say—your classmates, docents and teachers. Everyone’s opinions and questions are important.
• Think about how the art relates to you and your life. Does the art remind you of something or someone?
• Express your feelings and opinions about the art!
What does fun look like in an art museum?
• Hearing about how everyone sees, likes and understands the same work of art very differently.
• Figuring out what a work of art means.
• Expressing what you see or think.
• Participating in collaborative group activities.
• Getting involved in hands-on activities in the galleries.
• Remembering the tour through a free take home booklet with art and activities.
What is the class signal to get students attention?
Your docent will want to know what signal your class uses to get the group’s attention when they are on tour (clapping, hand signals, a class word, etc).
To prepare for a tour, you and your students should practice looking at art and asking questions. You will find that with practice, your students will enjoy exploring new art and that they have a lot to say. They will become skilled at reading the art and understanding what the artist is saying. This exercise is more fun than if we tell them what we know.
Select any work of art. You may look on the museum website tour description page for some works included in your tour.
Ask them to look quietly at the work of art. Set a timer for two to five minutes. With practice they will want to look longer. There is no need to tell them anything about the work of art before you start.
Ask them to describe what they see and point to where it is in the artwork. You may be surprised at the details your students identify. This exercise helps them focus and build language skills.
Ask your students what questions they have about this work of art. Bring all their questions for the tour—the docent will be trilled to have so many things to discuss on the tour! From these descriptions and questions, they can then intepret the work of art and connect it to their world.

What is a Termite Bond? What are Bonds Good For?
What is a Termite Bond? What are They Good For & are Bonds Worth the Cost?
>> What is a Termite Bond? What are They Good For & are Bonds Worth the Cost?
Wondering how much is your termite bond?
You found termite damage to your house, went through the whole process of hiring an exterminator to inspect the damage, then had several treatments to take care of the problem. This shouldn’t be the end of your efforts to eradicate termites from your home, however, since a house with previous termite damage is likely to experience a recurrence of the infestation at some point in the future.
People in places like Alabama are fond of saying, “There are two kinds of houses: those with termites and those that will have them.” How can you keep up with extermination costs that potentially recur every year? Look into the benefits of a termite bond.
What is a termite bond? It is a contract or guarantee entered into between a homeowner/business owner and their exterminator. After a building is treated for termites, a bond ensures future inspection and treatment at no cost to the customer beyond the bond renewal fee.
Will the cost of the bond amount to less than the expected expenses should reinfestation occur?
Does the bond cover both inspection and full retreatment?
Will the bond cover any damages related to termites causing future damage to the house?
Are you in an area with different kinds of termites? If so, will a bond cover all types of termites returning in the future?
If retreatment is needed and the new infestation is more extensive, will the company cover measures beyond the initial service (i.e. if only liquid is used the first time will they cover fumigation in the future)?
In order to understand how a termite bond works, you should know the basics of the termite extermination process. The first step is a thorough inspection to determine the type of termite, location of the infestation, and the extent of the damage. All of these factors taken together will determine the method used. Serious infestations usually require fumigation. In fact, a lot of title companies require fumigation before a home with any kind of termite damage is sold to a new owner. Typically, termite fumigations take around three days to complete.
The basic termite bond should cover a yearly inspection and, if termites return, future extermination costs. Initial extermination may be as low as $1,500 for a small area and basic treatment, and a large home with a significant problem can cost up to $5,000 to treat. In the first case, a bond fee of $200 per year may not be worth it, especially if you live in an area with infrequent infestations. Wise Geek features a concise article on termite bonds that recommends comparing the annual cost of a bond with the price of re-extermination for your house.
You cannot assume a termite bond will cover any and all damages caused by future infestations. Some bonds are for extermination costs only while others promise to repair a limited amount of damages to your house if the termites return within a certain time frame. The kind of termite in your house can affect the bond as well, says Orkin; if the initial treatment was for one type of termite and another kind re-infests your house, the bond may not apply. This may also be the case if the first time you have an issue in your basement, for example, but the next time find termites on the outside of your foundation.
If you have questions about termites bonds because you are buying or selling a house, look closely at the bond’s transfer limitations. For buyers purchasing a home with a previous termite problem, make sure the bond can and is transferred to you as the new homeowner. This way you are not on the hook for extermination costs that should have been covered by the previous owner. You will, however, need to take on the responsibility of the bond’s annual fees to continue the contract with the exterminator.
As a home seller, you should invest in a bond to increase the chances you will sell a home with termite damages. Homeowners’ insurance does not cover termite damage– a reinfestation too soon after the sale of your house could leave you paying the new homeowners’ extermination bills. Savvy buyers may not even consider buying from you without a bond in place. With a transferable bond, you can hand off the agreement to the new homeowner, they take on the cost of the bond, and you don’t have to worry about the termites coming back to a home you no longer own.
If you’ve recently had your home exterminated for termites and did not arrange for a bond with your pest control company, you may want to contact them and see if you can still sign an agreement. If you are buying or selling a home with previous termite problem and don’t know have never heard of a termite bond before, definitely educate yourself and make a termite bond part of your home buying or selling process. Just make sure the terms are agreeable to you and the needs of your house.
In answer to the question, “What is a termite bond?” you could say simply it is a contract that guarantees future treatment if termites return. Another way to see it is an added form of insurance that protects the value and condition of your house and other buildings. You will need to decide for yourself if the continuing, nominal cost of a termite bond is worth it; many people who live in areas where termites are a constant problem and go through having to pay for termite extermination once see the value in it.

Hello! Welcome to Luckstruck--sterling silver jewelry with a gothic Western feel. Laid back and badass, featuring vintage glass cabochons and my signature handmade silver roses.
Please excuse the somewhat gnarly hands in the photos--those are the hands that make the jewelry. :) Most items are made to order, so please allow three to five business days before they ship.
Though you won't receive the exact item pictured, it will be the same design. I make hundreds of little silver roses but each one turns out just a little bit differently. Kinda like snowflakes, I guess. The beauty of handmade is that each item might have its own little idiosyncrasy.
Buying a gift? Just let me know in the "note to seller" section at checkout where to send it and if you'd like me to include a note to the recipient.
If you have any questions, just shoot me a convo!
These are fantastic stackers! I love all the options, and now I have several choices. I did get a size bigger than normal in order to stack them...a whole size bigger but it was worth it. Fast shipping. Thank you!
Last day to order for Valentine's Day is February 1!
Finally getting around to photographing all the new earring styles I've been taking to shows but hadn't listed in my shop. Whew. Wish me luck.
Quality time in the studio.
I'm a tool junkie. I get it from my dad.
Each order comes ready for gift giving (or keeping for yourself).
Hey. I’m Lisa. I make things. I collect things. I have a lot of cats.
I graduated in 2008 from the University of Kansas with a degree in jewelry design and metalsmithing. Fun fact: It’s the oldest program of its kind west of the Mississippi. I read that in the course catalog once and I’ve repeated it dozens of times. I will probably continue to do so.
You know how most people change their major at least once? I never did. Kinda surprising, especially when you consider that a) I didn't take a single art class in high school and b) I picked jewelry/metalsmithing from a list on the back of a postcard KU sent me. My last semester, I took a letterpress class and made my own graduation announcements. On the back is a quote from Marilyn da Silva which reads, "Some people are said to have been born with a silver spoon. I am convinced that I was born with the hammer, to make the silver spoon, which makes me even luckier." Pure, Grade A awesomeness right there, folks.
I've been a maker my entire life. My mom's mom taught her to sew and my mom taught me. I joined 4-H when I was old enough and made clothes for the fair each year. It's kind of mind-blowing that I've been sewing for over twenty years. My dad was always working on our family home, which originally belonged to his grandmother. From the two of them, I learned how to do it myself before DIY was even a "thing". :) When I was a freshman in high school, I was bound and determined to take woodworking instead of Spanish, despite the reservations of my high school counselor. I later took Spanish, but woodworking has proven to be the most helpful in my daily life, hands down.
If you've got the time or interest, here's a blog post featuring my wedding a couple years ago: http://emmalinebride.com/real-weddings/handmade-wedding-diy-details/ I made my dress, the bridesmaids' dresses, my husband's clothes, our jewelry, invites... It was a crazy, crazy time in my life and called upon nearly every skill I have. Ha ha.
My parents have taken me to flea markets since I was little, so I've had a lifelong appreciation of old things. I especially take inspiration from vintage western imagery as well as Victorian jewelry and symbolism. You'll see a lot of "lucky" symbols...hence my shop name. I am obsessed with horseshoes but I don’t like horses all that much. One chewed on my ponytail at 4-H camp and I’ve never fully forgiven the species.
Many of my pieces showcase vintage glass cabochons. Most of them are what’s called a “reverse intaglio.” The cabochons have a design molded into the back, which is then painted. They're a poor man's version of Essex crystals, some of which are incredible. Google it. You won't regret it.
I recycle whatever I can, in and out of the studio. Your purchase might be mailed in a reused bubble envelope and padded with tissue paper. The gift box itself will be new, but is made of 77% post-consumer fiber.

We have plenty of experience in moving services. We have ourown fleet of vehicles (lorries) & advanced facilities. Our services aims are to provide prompt and on-schedule services and reasonable prices especially for small-medium size of business sector. Our services include moving for office, households, piano, cargo storage, export, packing services through out H.k. lsland, Kowloon & New Territories. Our staff is well-trained and attentive and gives you satisfied moving service and arrangement. Safe, prudent & caringservices anr provided to ensure that goods are delivered on time and in good condition. We treasure every customer and will go provide excellent,services go customers. Free quotation is welcome. Should you have any queries, please contact us for more details.

Delivery circa 8 weeks after closing of subscription period.
ORDER NOW FOR A SPECIAL EARLY BIRD PRICE. MAKE THIS DESIGN POSSIBLE.
During the pre-order period an early bird price applies: in your shopping cart you will find the early bird price at the check-out.
Exclusive design, delivery approximately 8 weeks after the end of the registration period. Normal delivery times do not apply. If there is an insufficient number of early bird orders, you will receive your money back circa1 week after the end of the pre-order period. Note: to date, all subscriptions of new City Cufflinks designs have been successfully concluded.
Quality shipping with UPS track & trace, or with quality peers if so required in a small selection of countries.

Roger & Gallet Thé Vert Perfumed Soap 100 g order online.
The Roger & Gallet Thé Vert Perfumed Soap is one for him and her. Roger & Gallet soaps are produced by a unique manufacturing process. They owe their incomparable fragrance to the artisan tradition and their infinite softness to the quality of their composition, which preserves all the vital functions of the skin. With Green Tea Perfumed Soap, plunge into the serenity of a Japanese garden and allow yourself to be carried away by the radiant, sacred atmosphere of Mount Fuji rising among the tea fields.
A soothing and relaxing piece of Roger & Gallet Thé Vert scented soap for the shower or bath.
Take the bar of Roger & Gallet Thé Vert Perfumed Soap with you into the shower or bath and lather it up with some water. Cleanse your skin with the creamy foam and apply a thin layer of the Roger & Gallet Thé Vert Bodylotion afterwards to hydrate and protect your skin. Finish the relaxing ritual with a few sprays of the Roger & Gallet Thé Vert Fresh Fragrant Water.
SODIUM PALMITATE, SODIUM COCOATE, PARFUM, TETRASODIUM ETIDRONATE, AQUA, HEXYL CINNAMAL, GLYCERIN, HEXYLENE GLYCOL, PROPYLENE GLYCOL, LINALOOL, BENZYL SALICYLATE, LIMONENE, TETRASODIUM EDTA, BUTYLPHENYL METHYLPROPIONAL, GERANIOL, CAMELLIA SINENSIS LEAF EXTRACT.

Hi! Sign in to let us know how R V Stich Construction Inc was?
honesty is key Apr 17 .
by JanBuck at Citysearch Nov 10 .
This company is terribile. They showed up at our site with some of the worst looking equipment you have ever seen. Those photos on their website is nothing like the equipment they really have. Their people are just aweful and the dope head they sent to work at our site tried to hit us up for additional side work using their equipment. A guy named Matt arrived twice and then completely disappeared never to be seen again. This is a real scammer - buyer beware!
by JaggedEdged at Citysearch Nov 10 .
I read the other review by a former employer. I never worked there, so I don't really know, but the people there do seem really nice. Lot of great guys, and it seems like they keep their employees around long term, so they must be doing something right. Very friendly guys at that company, and a few hotties too (who shall remain nameless), which never hurts when they are working on your jobsite too.
by repulsive at Citysearch Nov 10 .
I was working in that company for about eleven months. The treatment there was not so good, specially for one specific person call Rocky Stich and his co-workers: Del rosario, Juliana, Matt, Rick, Rachel, Dennis, Jessie ??, Andy, Carol, Diana, and anothers ones.
If you've been to or used R V Stich Construction Inc, leave a review.

Jessie J is coming to "Bang Bang" collaborator Ariana Grande's defense against those nasty diva rumors. Recently Ari has been plagued with claims that she is rude to fans, has a long list of ridiculous demands, and won't let photographers shoot her from the right side of her face—and Jessie wants you to know that those stories are far from the truth.
While at an appearance in NYC, Jessie J spoke with Us Weekly about working with Ariana and how she thinks some people mistake her passion for diva behavior.
"I've met Ariana," said Jessie, "And there's a very thin line between 'diva' and 'survival.' And a lot of people can't [differentiate that]—and I've had that. I've had the diva stuff. And it's when people can't cope with how passionate you are, and how much you care."
Clearly Ariana's passion is working for her, because she has been dominating the music charts.
"She's super talented, she's very young, and she's very sure of what she wants," Jessie continued. "I think she's wonderful. She's great."
A girl who knows what she wants and goes after it? There's nothing wrong with that!
Do you believe the diva rumors about Ariana Grande? Do you agree with Jessie J about passion being mistaken for diva-like behavior? Commen below!
Snapped: See The First Official Pic Of Ariana Grande & Big Sean Making Out!
Ariana Grande , Jessie J , and Nicki Minaj Premiere New Single "Bang Bang "—Listen Here!
Ariana Grande Kills Nicki Minaj's Rap In "Bang Bang "—Check It Out!

Elvis Costello played a two-hour, 25-song show that touched on phases throughout his career, both deep cuts and hits, as well as nine of the new disc’s 12 songs. And to the delight of the nearly sold-out crowd, Costello did them all them well.
Over a career of more than 40 years, singer Elvis Costello has been a punk provocateur, a seminal new wave voice, a contemporary pop singer and even a classic crooner. And there have been fans of each of Costello’s career ventures.
So how to satisfy everyone coming to see Costello kick off the North American leg of his latest tour at Sands Bethlehem Event Center to support yet another venture – his very strong new disc “Look Now”?
On Friday, Costello did his best to do just that, playing a two-hour, 25-song show that touched on phases throughout his career, both deep cuts and hits, as well as nine of the new disc’s 12 songs.
And to the delight of the nearly sold-out crowd, Costello did them all well – not afraid to revisit not only the songs of his earlier career, but also carrying the spirit of them into the newer songs.
Perhaps after surviving cancer surgery that canceled the end of his European leg, the 64-year-old Costello was emboldened, or re-invigorated.
Either way, his performance, and voice, was stronger than when he played the Sands in 2016.
Backed by a crack three-man band and two female singers, Costello opened the show with “This Year’s Girl” from his 1978 sophomore disc, “This Year’s Model,” with its swirling synth reviving that new wave sound.
He followed that with two 1980s deeper cuts: a forceful “Honey, Are You Straight or Are You Blind,” and “Clubland,” with Costello’s ‘70s rocking edge. On the latter, Costello even held a finger to his nose to hush the crowd as he played a scrubbing lead and sang with a “Watching the Detectives” affect.
Later offerings from the new disc were even better. The disc’s new single “Under Lime” had very much that 1977 vibe that ushered in new wave. “Why Won’t Heaven Help Me” was pretty rocking. The slow guitar-and-piano “Stripping Paper” was a clear reminder or the Elvis of old, and the slow, sensitive “Suspect My Tears” had some of his best vocals of the night, as he reached for a falsetto.
Early in the show, the older songs Costello played were nearly all deeper cuts: “New Lace Sleeves” from 1981’s “Trust”; a rocking, new-wavey “(I Don’t Want to Go To) Chelsea,” with good lead guitar.
So that when he did play a hit – his 1977 U.S. breakthrough “Watching the Detectives,” (in the same darkened-stage presentation as the last time he was at the Sands) it got a huge crowd reaction – and deservedly so.
Costello later did the same with later songs: A largely voice-and-acoustic guitar version of 1986’s “Indoor Fireworks” to a big cheer from the crowd, and closed the main set with a faster, more rocking “Can You Hear Me” from his last disc, 2013’s “Wise Up Ghost” that segued right into the hit “Pump It Up,” thumping, urgent and rocking.
Costello’s encore stretched eight songs and 40 minutes.
It opened with one of the night’s best: a barely instrumented, mostly a cappella “Allison,” with his two female backup singers. It got a huge cheer. Then a stark and spare, piano-and-voice “Accidents Will Happen,” on which he reached for a high and powerful end note.
He used that same vocal approach on “I Still Have That Other Girl,” which he also wrote with Bacharach, – really singing it --and paired that with a new Bacharach co-write, “He’s Given Me Things,” from the new disc.
Costello flubbed the start of that song slightly, and after saying “this is the first night,” re-started it dramatically better. He followed that with another early deeper cut, “Green Shirt,” which started stripped, then built as the crowd clapped along.
And then a six-minute version of his 1979 hit “(What’s So Funny ‘Bout) Peace Love and Understanding,” with a wonderful chorus coda.
That completed Costello’s journey of giving everyone what they wanted. The fact that he could do that, and do it as well as he did, shows how important Costello’s music has been, and how much he still has left.

Subspace Reviews: Original Spider-Man and The Incredible Hulk giveaway!
Original Spider-Man and The Incredible Hulk giveaway!
Like superheroes? You're in luck, as we have a copy of Original Spider-Man Complete Collection and a copy of The Incredible Hulk Complete Collection to give away! Two lucky winners will win one each.
The Original Spider-Man Complete Collection contains 52 episodes and 18 hours of essential Spidey viewing, and The Incredible Hulk Complete Collection has 73 episodes and over 16 hours of Hulk doing his thing.
"RT&follow! @SubspaceReviews are giving away Spider-Man and The Incredible Hulk collections! Visit: http://tinyurl.com/2umtn66 to win!"
and check out our Facebook page at http://www.facebook.com/home.php#!/pages/Subspace-Reviews/165445003504185 for another entry.
Winners will be chosen at the end of the month!
Nice, I love the classic Spider-Man, so I'll most definitely enter this contest. Thanks!
Great choices! I like both Spider-man & The Incredible Hulk. My real good buddy has the 1st comic with The Hulk. That helped me become a bigger fan.
Excellent prizes, thanks for the chance to win!
I would very much like to win.
Love the classic cartoons! :) Thanks for the contest!

We used plans for an 8x8 saltbox. Egg collecting can be accessed from outside as well as inside. Feeder and waterer are on slideable boards (my husband's idea) so that we don't have to actually go inside coop. Coop can be accessed by wire door attached with hooks for easy cleaning.
We let our roosters free range and then at night they jump up on roost right inside door for safety but cannot get to hens. Electric box and light switch are mounted above the doors inside. We have 6 Buff Orphingtons and 6 Golden Comets with 2 Buff Roosters named Tony and Jeff after our favorite Nascar drivers!
Plan to add small 4x8 deck onto the front of coop as well as a flower box under south widow for added decoration. Hens are very happy and producing 8-10 eggs a day now!
If anyone would have questions please feel free to Email us!
Would like to see more details about the coop and how you built it. And more photos.
I guess I don't understand this sight, do we not get materials list?

A top foreign policy adviser for Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney lobbied for businesses that did business with Iran. Maybe this is what Romney means when he says he’s going to do the “opposite” of President Barack Obama on Israel?
Former Representative Vin Weber (R-MN) is currently a partner of the lobbying firm Clark and Weinstock which has lobbied on behalf of Alcoa, Hyundai Motor Company, Ernst Young, PricewaterhouseCoopers, BNP Paribas, Zurich Financial Services, Ericsson, Nokia, and Panasonic. According to United Against Iran, “a not-for-profit, non-partisan, advocacy group that seeks to prevent Iran from fulfilling its ambition to obtain nuclear weapons,” each of these companies had or has business with the Islamic Republic of Iran. Furthermore, according to OpenSecrets.org, a website dedicated to enlightening the public about how much money is spent on lobbying expenditures, Weber has lobbied on behalf of one or more of the above listed companies as recently as 2012.
This raises serious questions about Romney’s judgment when it comes to selecting his most trusted advisers. How committed can Romney be to stopping Iran in its pursuit of nuclear weapons if one of his top foreign policy advisers actually lobbied for companies that did business with Iran? What was Weber lobbying for?
Stopping Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons is one of the most pressing national security challenges facing us today and President Obama’s resolve is clear. As Obama continues to strengthen sanctions and keep all options on the table to stop Iran, Romney has a top “special adviser” who actually lobbied for companies that did business with Iran.
That is quite the opposite.
Worse, this is endemic of a party-wide challenge that the GOP seems to be having with regard to doing the right thing on Iran—whether to side with big business or strengthening Iran sanctions, as evidenced by the fifth party-line House GOP vote to side with former over the latter.

Fresh food is so attractive to astronauts that they toasted with salad when they were able to cultivate a few lettuce heads on the International Space Station three years ago.
In 2021, beans are on the menu to be grown in space, planted in high-tech planters developed at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU).
“Astronauts like gardening and everything that reminds them of life on earth. They enjoy tending and watering the vegetables, and getting them to germinate,” says Silje Wolff, a plant physiologist at the Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Space (CIRiS), which is part of NTNU Social Research.
Wolff has just completed an experiment that involved growing lettuce for space. The lettuce was planted in artificial soil made from lava rock. The goal is for the plants to grow directly in water that is supplemented with plant nutrients.
“The dream of every astronaut is to be able to eat fresh food – like strawberries, cherry tomatoes or anything that’s really flavorful. Someday that will certainly be possible. We envision a greenhouse with several varieties of vegetables,” says Wolff.
The longest stays at the International Space Station have been six months. People travelling to Mars will need to be prepared to stay in space for at least a year.
The European Space Agency plans to build a lunar base in 2030 as a stopover on the way to Mars. NASA plans to fly directly to the planet with a target landing date of 2030.
“The way space travel works today, it’s almost impossible to take along all the resources you need. That’s why we have to develop a biological system so astronauts can produce their own food, and recycle all of the resources,” says Wolff.
Today’s astronauts eat only freeze-dried and vacuum-packed foods.
“Astronauts struggle with having little appetite. They often lose weight. Addressing the psychological aspect of eating something fresh is one of our goals. Vacuum-packed food doesn’t really remind you of food. Having something fresh that triggers the appetite and the right receptors in the brain is important,” Wolff says.
NTNU and CIRiS are collaborating with Italian and French researchers in their quest to cultivate plant-based food for long space journeys.
CIRiS tests the new equipment made by NTNU’s technical workshop – very sophisticated planters that regulate all the water, nutrients, gas and air the plants need. In space, all the water and food has to be recovered. This means that plant fertilization needs to be as precise as possible.
Wolff has conducted experiments in climate-regulated growth chambers in the Netherlands as one aspect of this research.
Of all the nutrients plants use, they use nitrogen the most. During her experiments, Wolff looked at different nutrient doses and how they affected the plants’ water uptake.
“We found that plants can, in a way, ‘smell’ the amount of nutrients available to them. When the nitrogen concentration is very low, the plant will absorb more water and thus more nitrogen until it reaches an optimal level. The plant has a mechanism that turns on when the nitrogen level is adequate. Then it adjusts both nitrogen and water absorption down,” says Wolff.
Everything that can be tested on Earth has now been carried out. The next step is to grow beans in space to observe the effect of no gravity on plants’ ability to transport water and absorb nutrients. Simulating the absence of gravity can’t be done on Earth.
The beans are placed in a centrifuge to sprout and grow in the space station. The centrifuge is rotated to create different amounts of gravity.
That will allow her to compare how the different gravitational levels affect the plants in space. On Earth, gravity causes warm air to rise while cold air sinks. In the space station, air is more stationary, causing astronauts to always have a low-grade fever. Plants are also affected.
“Stationary air affects a layer on the underside of the leaf where the stoma pores are located. When gravity disappears, the boundary layer in the slit-shaped apertures thickens. This reduces evaporation and causes the leaf temperature to increase. Water vapour diffusion to the environment is an important part of plant regulation and can be compared with sweating to cool the body in humans and animals,” says Wolff.
Food production in cities offers an opportunity to produce more food in the most sustainable way. Cities don’t have much soil for cultivation, but a lot becomes possible if you can plant directly in water in indoor closed systems where all aspects of the climate are regulated.
“Recycling and precise fertilization are key to achieving more sustainable food production. By growing plants directly in water with dissolved nutrients, fertilization and irrigation are much easier to control,” says Wolff.
“The plants become less sensitive to nutritional deficiency because the roots are in direct contact with the nutrients. They’re always able to access new nutrients through the water, and can use absolutely all the nutrients available – unlike with soil that binds the nutrients and affects their availability to the roots. And the roots don’t rot when the water is mixed with a little oxygen,” she says.

It’s pretty difficult to indulge in delicious food and still be beach ready. Luckily, the clean eating trend doesn’t seem to be such a trend anymore. In fact, being vegan and eating healthy is starting to become the norm for many people. Because of this we’re seeing more and more vegan/ healthy options popping up. Miami is known for its beautiful beaches and savory foods but now you can add vegan to the list of foods popular in town! Check out these vegan spots next time you’re in Miami.
This café is located in the heart of Miami, inside of Love Life Wellness center, a place where you can schedule workouts/yoga classes, holistic services, and of course, eat! This place is dedicated to offering customers a way to heal both mentally and physically. However, if you’re only interested in the food than that’s okay too. The café offers everything from breakfast to soups to burgers to pizza! Everything is made with health in mind, so you won’t feel guilty eating it.
If you have a sweet tooth, Chef Chloe and The Vegan Café is the place for you. They offer cake, cookies, cupcakes, and more. The food taste good, looks good, and the café is located in the Miami design district - you’ll be Instagraming everything! The staff is also a huge part of the welcoming feeling because they’re so attentive and willing to help in any way they can. There’s also the fact that the café is so popular that even celebrities go there. All this aside, the food is what stands out the most. If you didn’t know it was vegan food, you’d never be able to tell.
Don’t let the name fool you. DIRT is all about clean-eating which is why they offer vegan options to their customers. The idea is to have inclusivity at the restaurant so anyone who wants to eat clean can enjoy - vegan or not. With two locations in Miami, DIRT has been the talk of the town for offering fresh, delicious food. Jeff LaTulippe, co-founder, says he started DIRT because he struggled with his weight in the past and wanted to provide a place where you didn’t have to compromise on taste in order to eat clean.
Delirio Fresh offers abundant meals to give you tons of energy for your day. They’re unique however, because they practice what they preach. Not only do they have four locations in Miami where you can go to enjoy some healthy vegan food, but they also offer meal plans to be delivered right to your door. That’s right, they have made it so simple for you to be healthy on a daily basis! Everything from green juices to acai bowls to smoothies to empanadas – Delirio Fresh has got it.
Almalibre Açaí Bar aims at feeding your adventurous sprit in hopes of giving you the courage to go out and do what you’ve always wanted. They have a number of items on their menu, but their acai is by far the most popular. Almalibre carries a unique formula for their acai that no one else in the world offers (because they own the rights to it of course). Nevertheless, the acai is creamy and flavorful and according to the owner, the #1 acai not just in Miami but in Florida!
Vegan & Juice is a quaint little place in Miami that offers fresh, healthy vegan food. They stress the importance of health and treating our bodies like delicate temples that should be treasured. Along with the use of science, the staff at Vegan & Juice understand what our bodies need to be healthy and they incorporate that into their food options. The menu is unique in flavor and choices and everything tastes exquisite.

Here you will find solutions for all your mobile power supply needs to provide power on the go for all your mobile devices such as smartphones, laptops, tablets and cameras. Charge your device conveniently via USB ports or the DC input. With our products you will never run out of power again.
Trying to make an important phone call and the battery of your smartphone is empty? You’re lost, and the battery of your navigation device runs out of power? You can’t keep shooting vacation pictures because the battery in your camera is depleted? These situations are a thing of the past with products made by XT Power, because we offer mobile power supplies for all your mobile handheld devices. Whether smartphone, tablet or navigation device, your devices can be conveniently charged with our products.
With the convenient, small USB batteries you can charge your smartphone, your digital camera and other devices that require a 5V power supply, easy on the go. Micro USB ports allow you to charge up to four devices at a time, getting you ready for any situation. Get even more power with the DC / USB Power Bank, perfect for laptops and tablets. Prefer an environmentally friendly and cost saving solution? Try our solar Power Bank.
Use solar energy for your mobile power supply and be even more independent of stationary power sources, using the solar Power Bank or the solar panel. Our foldable solar panels use monocrystalline solar cells and can effectively convert solar energy. See for yourself.
At XT Power you will not only find high-quality products for mobile power supply, but also the most important information about the subject. If you have further questions, we are happy to help. Just use our contact form to ask questions about any of our products and we will get back to you within one working day. We hope you enjoy browsing.

Kick start your Kashmir holiday tour with arrival at Srinagar. Here, you will meet a representative and get transferred to a Deluxe Houseboat. In the afternoon, head out to enjoy a romantic 'Shikara ride' on the much famed Dal Lake. You can also go Shikara shopping and buy Kashmiri shawls, handicrafts and curios on the lake. Return to the houseboat in the evening, where you will have dinner and spend the night.
Have a delicious breakfast and head out to Sonmarg. Spend the day at leisure and bask in the captivating beauty of the Himalayas. In the evening, drive back to Srinagar. Upon arrival, return to the houseboat, have dinner and spend the night.
Post breakfast, drive up to the picturesque hill station Gulmarg, which is home to the world's highest green golf course and some exciting skiing slopes. The day is at leisure - you can take a cable-car Gondola ride from Gulmarg to Khilanmarg and delight in the stunning vistas of snow-capped peaks and green meadows. Head back to Srinagar and return to the hotel, where you will stay overnight after a delicious dinner.
Have breakfast and start off to Pahalgam and on your way, take a short trip to the saffron fields and the Awantipura Ruins, relics of old temples dedicated to Lord Vishnu and Lord Shiva built in the 9th Century AD by King Awantiwareman. Arrive Pahalgam and check into the hotel booked as per your Kashmir tour package. Spend the remaining day at leisure. Post dinner at the hotel, enjoy your overnight stay.
Have breakfast and proceed to take a scenic drive to Srinagar. After arrival, check into a hotel. In the afternoon, start off to the picturesque Nishat Bagh, a terraced Mughal Garden and Shalimar Bagh, another Mughal Garden linked to the Dal Lake from the northeastern shore via a channel. Return back to the hotel and spend the night following a delectable dinner.
Have a savory breakfast and check-out of the hotel. Then, proceed to the airport to catch a light to your onward journey.
Srinagar – The capital city of Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar is noted for serene Dal Lake and remarkable Mughal gardens like Nishat Bagh, Shalimar Bagh, and Chashmashahi. Other places of interest are Hazratbal Mosque, Nehru Garden, Pari Mahal, Roza Bal, and Shankaracharya Mandir.
Gulmarg - One of the most famous tourist destinations in India, Gulmarg is a hill station most noted for its awe-inspiring natural beauty. Gulmarg is a popular skiing destination during winters as its long and high slopes make perfect piste areas. In summers as the snow melts, the town becomes a major golfing hub with the world's highest golf course. Enveloped by the gigantic mountains, lush greenery, and stunning meadows, Gulmarg is surely worth a visit.
Sonamarg – The fascinating countryside area, Sonamarg lies at a high altitude, which makes it chilly even in summers. Thajiwas Glacier, Krishnasar Lake, Vishansar Lake, and Gangabal are the major attractions in the area.
Awantipura – Set amidst a verdant valley, Awantipura is widely famous for the ruins of Awantipura that lure in hordes of tourists from around the world. Amidst the scenic landscapes, the ruins of several temples built by King Awantiwareman in the 9th century AD take your breath away.

September’s Free Book of the Month is here. Get yours now.
The story of Joseph offers a vivid picture of redemption, reconciliation, and forgiveness. But it’s so much more than that.
The Joseph story is sometimes described by scholars as ‘the Joseph cycle’. This is a helpful term. In Genesis, there are similarly ‘cycles’ of stories about Abraham (Gen. 12–25) and Jacob (Gen. 26–36); and in other parts of the Bible, there is a ‘David Cycle’ for example (1 Sam. 16–1 Kgs. 2) and one about Elijah (1 Kgs. 17–2 Kgs. 2). A ‘cycle’ in this sense is a series of connected and continuous narratives about a central figure, in which the component parts nevertheless have their own separate coherence and integrity—like episodes in a TV drama series perhaps or like the individual parts in a ‘cycle’ of Medieval mystery plays.
If you’ve ever wanted to take a closer look at this classic Bible story, Living the Dream provides easily digestible chunks to help you get the most from it. Each chapter of the book often aligns with a single chapter of the story of Joseph.
While you’re at it, add another book from the same collection for just $0.99!
This month only, when you get Living the Dream for free, you can also snag God, Pharaoh and Moses for less than a buck.
In God, Pharaoh and Moses, William Ford tackles questions like: why does God send a series of plagues to Egypt? How do we understand the hardening of Pharaoh’s heart?
1. Get your free book.
2. Add another for $0.99.
3. Enter to win the entire 9-volume Old Testament Studies Collection.

How does eSIS help insitutions adapt in the Education Sector?
An integrated solution for all aspects of managing university students affairs from initial application and registration, including all resources (from classrooms to books to dormitory arrangements) until graduation.
Improved administration services everywhere - and instantly enhanced results at students' point of contact with their educational institutions.
Lowered costs and immediate cost management information, to help educational institutions to make the most of funding and remain competitive.
Highly efficient and rapid Departmental communication.
Improved assessments of academic performance, through increased accuracy in handling of students' information.
Extensive flow of up-to-date management information.
"Future-proof" Design using "open systems" standards, protecting clients' investment and minimising expenditure in the future.
Scalability of the software, to compliment the business needs of eSIS client institutions with maximum flexibility.
Designed around Easy-to-use Web-based features, to strengthen interaction between students and faculty (as well as local community and internationally).
Facilitating a "one-campus" University environment, where all the educational community can share service facilitie.
Error Message An Unhandled Error occurred.

Leading 2017 Isle of Man TT newcomer Adam McLean will be at this year’s Armoy Road Races.
The big event will take place on Friday and Saturday, July 28-29.
Joining McLean, a previous winner of the Junior Support at Armoy, will be local men William Dunlop, Neil Kernohan, Paul Jordan, Darryl Tweed, Paul Robinson, Gary Dunlop, Hexham rider Dominic Herbertson and Moto3/125 GP race winner Christian Elkin, winner of Moto3/125 GP race in 2016.
With entries yet to close (July 3) and the 2017 TT just finished, many riders are now turning their attention to Armoy and confirming their attendance.
The announcement was made at the official launch of the Roadside Kia ‘Race of Legends’, which was held at Gracehill House, Stranocum yesterday alongside a keynote presentation from David Wallace, the film producer of Road Racers and a local Dunloy man.
This year is the 40th anniversary of the original 1977 documentary, which truly captured the heady mixture of three local men, their families and their passion, drive and love of road racing.
He gave a short presentation on why and how the film was made but having won two BAFTAs for other work.
Some key scenes of the film depict the three riders, Joey Dunlop, Mervyn Robinson and Frank Kennedy, riding through the village of Armoy where they often tested their bikes.
Bill Kennedy MBE, Chairman and Clerk of the Course, AMRRC said: “We are delighted to host, film producer and local man, David Wallace. It is difficult to comprehend that this film, Road Racers, was made 40 years ago, let alone the impact this film would have in years to come, the place it has in people’s hearts and the iconic level that it has reached across the whole road racing community.
“The Armoy Road Races came about as most of you know, after a bit of craic in a local pub. It’s hard to believe come September that we will be in our tenth year and that we continue to celebrate all of our road racers, past and present, including the reputed Armoy Armada.
“It is also hard to be believe how exceptionally fast 2017 is disappearing but we are on target with our planning. With additional monies from the Department of Communities and some work on the roads, courtesy of Transport NI, these races are set to be one of the best.
“William Dunlop was man of the meeting in 2016 and I’ve no doubt he will be keen to revisit his Armoy winning streak. As of yet, brother, Michael Dunlop, who retains the title of Race of Legends winner, having won in six successive years has yet to confirm his entry but the Club is hopeful he will race on his home course come July.
Also in attendance were the Mayor of Causeway Coast and Glens Borough Council, Councillor Joan Baird, Terence Brannigan, Chairman of Tourism Northern Ireland, members of the Armoy Club and other guests and sponsors including title &apos;Race of Legends&apos; sponsor, Roadside Kia.
Terence Brannigan, Tourism NI Chairman also commented: “Armoy Road Races are one of Northern Ireland’s prime motorsport gatherings, attracting motorcycle riders and spectators both locally and internationally.
"As the event goes from strength to strength it has an important role to play in tourism, in contributing to the economy and in enhancing our reputation as a destination.
Bill Kennedy concluded: “I’d like to finish by thanking event sponsors Causeway Coast and Glens Borough Council and Tourism NI for their very kind support.
"I’d also like to thank our title sponsor Roadside Kia. Without the support and sponsorship from these organisations and other sponsors present here today, the event just wouldn’t be possible.
This year, Bike Week runs from Sunday July 23 until Saturday July 29 with the races taking place on Friday, July 28 and Saturday, July 29 culminating in the Roadside Kia ‘Race of Legends’.
The Armoy Road Races are part funded by Tourism Northern Ireland and the Causeway Coast and Glens Borough Council.

Over the past century, Leviton's electrical components have made them a household name. But did you know that they produce an impressive line of fiber optic products as well? From consumables and connectors to fiber enclosures and adapter plates, Leviton fiber optic components are designed for fast, easy terminations and high quality connections. Read on to learn more about Leviton fiber optics, available right here at CableOrganizer.com!
Before you can terminate optical fiber, you've got to get it squeaky clean. For just that reason, you'll find a wide variety of Leviton fiber optic consumables products at CableOrganizer.com. The standard Leviton Consumables Kit comes complete with alcohol pads, polyester wipes, music wire, and lapping film. The Fast-Cure Kit is made up of all the adhesive, accelerator, needles and syringes needed for terminations with Leviton's Fast-Cure connectors. We even carry Leviton's Adhesive Accelerator kit, which contains primer and hardener for use with fiber optic connector adhesives.
Leviton Fan Out Kits are perfect for separating and protecting 250-micron fibers during fan out terminations, and make it easy to route them into 900-micron color-coded buffer tubes. Fan out kits are available in 24" and 36" lengths, for 6-fiber or 12-fiber configurations.
Whether you need to terminate single-mode or multimode fiber, Leviton's FastCAM connectors allow you to make fast, precise field terminations. Using a proven and revolutionary mechanical splice technology, FastCAM connectors eliminate the need for hand polishing, specials tools, and even epoxy! After a cleaved fiber is inserted into a FastCAM connector, the installer simply releases the factory-installed wedge clip, and an instant low-loss connection is formed.
EIA/TIA compliant FastCAM connectors are available in LC, SC or ST styles. They're perfect for any indoor premise or fiber-to-the-subscriber installation, as well as applications that require a fast data network. To make terminations even easier, try Leviton's FastCAM Installation Kit, which includes a fiber stripper, cleaver, and two types of cleaning wipes: dry and alcohol-moistened.
Perfect for both indoor and outdoor applications, Fast-Cure Adhesive Style Connectors from Leviton make it easy to quickly terminate optical fiber for LANs, WANs, point-to-point systems and Cable TV distribution networks. Available for single-mode and multimode fiber, Fast-Cure connectors come in LC, SC and ST styles, and feature precision, pre-radiused zirconia ferrules. Leviton's Fast-Cure adhesive connectors comply with TIA/EIA standards, and their high cable-retention crimp makes them ideal for use with jacketed fiber.
Thread-Lock connectors are a convenient solution for easy field terminations on single-mode and multimode fiber. TIA/EIA compliant Thread-Lock connectors are both removable and reusable, and meet Telecommunications Industry standards for tensile strength and performance. Best suited for indoor use, these Leviton fiber optic connectors don't require crimp tools, epoxies or heat curing, and take about 2 minutes each to install. Thread-Lock connectors have a typical insertion loss of 0.20dB, and come in SC and ST varieties, with duplex clips available.
Ideal for protecting and organizing optical splice fibers, the Leviton DPS Optical Splice Enclosure is designed to complement any 19" or 23" rack mount application. The DPS Optical Splice Enclosure is constructed of rugged aluminum, and features front and rear hinged doors (with an optional key lock) for convenient access to fibers and splice trays. Available in 3U, 4U and 6U sizes, this Leviton enclosure is NEBS GR-63 compliant, and is perfect for use with legacy systems.
Leviton's OPT-X® 1000 1RU Fiber Optic Enclosure is ideal for the splicing, patching and cross-connect of single-mode or multimode fiber in rack mount applications. A natural fit for tight spaces, the OPT-X™ 1000 can accommodate up to 24 fibers, and features front and rear tilt-up lids for easy access. Equipped with strain relief at cable entry points, this Leviton fiber enclosure is available with or without adapters, and accepts up to 3 splice trays. The OPT-X™ 1000 is UL-listed, and meets or exceeds all TIA/EIA standards that apply to it.
The perfect partner for Leviton OPT-X™ 1000 Rack-Mount Enclosures! OPT-X® Adapter Plates are available in multiple adapter types, so installers can easily add in or change connector styles. Equipped with easy-to-use plastic plungers, these 16-gauge steel adapter plates allow for fast installation. no tools needed! TIA/EIA compliant Leviton OPT-X™ adapter plates can be configured with 6, 8, or 12 ports, and accommodate FC, LC, ST, MT-RJ and QuickPort adapters.

Belize Police find a second grenade in the City in the span of a week. Last week the Police briefed the press about a grenade found on Banak Street in the City and promised an update on the investigations this week. Today however, police informed the media that they had found yet another grenade on Mayflower Street which intersects Vernon Street in Belize City. The discovery was made after authorities received a call at ten yesterday morning. Senior Superintendent Edward Broaster, Deputy Commander of the Eastern Division in Belize City briefed the press this morning. Here is audio provided by our Colleagues at KREM News.
The area it was found was under some bushes near a fence in an overgrown empty lot. The grenade was wrapped in several layers of plastic and police add that their intelligence suggests it was placed in the area about thirty minutes prior to them receiving the call. But there is the suggestion that officers of the police department are the ones planting the grenades.
There is also the growing fear, since the discovery of the grenade that there may be intent on detonating one such weapon in a crowded area during the upcoming September festivities. Authorities say they don’t believe so.
Police also discovered a point 38 revolver that was also seized.

Breakfast & Brunch Recipes – Abbey Co.
My favorite recipes for breakfast and brunch!
Did you know that homemade biscuits are so easy to throw together, and that you can bake them in the time that it takes you to make this sausage gravy? Biscuits and Gravy are such a hearty and delicious meal that make me think of a foggy fall morning where you plan to have a jumbo brunch and snuggle under a blanket on your couch with coffee all morning. This recipe has both ingredients and directions for both parts, but I would save this biscuit recipe and make them as a side for dinner now and again too!
This glazed Almond Blueberry Cake is perfect for many things! The recipe is easy to whip up, and the cake is a fabulous addition to a brunch, or dished up as dessert at a summer party out on the patio. Fresh blueberry baked goods are my personal favorite on an early summer morning with a cup of coffee. I hope you enjoy, and don't forget to pin this keeper for later!
This sour cream coffee cake is an absolute win for entertaining. This can absolutely impress as a brunch item, or is a fabulous recipe to use around the holidays. This cake is extremely easy and can be dressed up a little more with a fancy bundt pan. It is so moist and flavorful. The sour cream blends in and adds a savory side to compliment the sweet just perfectly!
A fun variation of the traditional pancake: Vanilla yogurt pancakes with mini chocolate chips! These pancakes are very dense and filling, while remaining fluffy and delicious.

The purpose of this role is to provide individualized support to enable people to remain independent and continue to live within their own homes. We are looking for caring and compassionate people to become day makers ensuring our service users are happy and comfortable with the service they receive.
As a home care assistant, you will spend your time out in the community visiting our service users and ensuring they are well looked after, safe and happy. The type of care and support that we offer varies depending on each service user’s individual needs.

Hi everyone. Firstly I must apologise for the lack of blog posts in the last few weeks; in fact since 5 March when I posted the last one. I've had a manically busy few weeks having taken on a number of new clients. Also, I am preparing for a photo shoot of my flat in mid April which has been stressing me out somewhat. So I've been furiously upcycling some of my furniture with Annie Sloan paint (separate blog post shortly) and changing lampshades on all my table lamps.
Table lamps can be so boring and serve no other purpose than to provide a lighting source. Gone are the days when you only had a limited choice of shades, mainly 50 shades of beige or cream!! Now you can buy the most divine shades and make a real statement, a wow factor, even if the lamp base is a bit "meh". The reverse is a statement lamp base with a plain shade that doesn't compete. However, beware as you can spend hundreds of pounds on a lamp shade and even thousands of pounds on a lamp base. It's a matter of finding something affordable and you really love.
There is a great shop in London called Pooky Lighting which sells affordable and fun lamp bases and shades so I popped in and bought three pairs of lampshades for the bedrooms and kitchen. What a difference they have made to the rooms; the lighting has transformed the spaces from "meh" to "tah-dah" !!!
In the kitchen I changed the shades from plain taupe coloured silk to these gorgeous silk Ikat pleated shades by Pooky Lights. In the sitting room I replaced a pair of beige linen shades in the alcoves with black & white Ikat ones which really draw the eye in.
And finally, I bought a rather expensive but absolutely divine lamp base from Nicholas Haslam designed by Paolo Moschino. It is my piece de resistance but one of those items that you see and just have to have!! It is solid handcarved brass and it was the way it opened up like a flower and had such beautiful flowing lines that made me fall in love with it. The jury is out on whether any of my friends like it !!
I would love to hear what sort of table lamps you have and would be happy to offer some advice if you are thinking of changing them so do contact me.

When you are happy Tiling Guys in Trinidad, CA the bathroom floor tiles are laid correctly we will wait for the tile adhesive to set before you apply the grout to the joints using a grout spreader. When the grout is applied we will make sure that the joints are pointed correctly to help ant water to run off. When pointed correctly you should use a special grout cleaning sponge to remove any excess grout.
It has been reported to Tiling Guys in Trinidad, CA that more and more children are choosing to stay living at home way after the length of time that they previously would have moved out. It is believed that with the current economic climate as it is and the uncertainty of job security coupled with the fact that house prices are still extremely high more young adults are choosing the security of their parent's home over the responsibility of buying their own property. For many parents this is fine but as children grow up they take up more and more living space and require more privacy than in their younger years. So what is the answer to helping to keep harmony in the home? Perhaps you should install an en suite bathroom in your bedroom.
Now you can understand the work load that goes into tiling a bathroom floor or any other area for that matter, and if you have not done this before, do not proactive on your own home, call Tiling Guysin Trinidad, CA on 888-286-0922.

Is an election recount a good idea?
The Green Party’s Jill Stein is pushing for election recounts in three battleground states. Why and what could come of the effort?
Billionaire Betsy DeVos is a Michigan philanthropist and a Republican activist. She is best known for pushing school vouchers, a way for families to spend public money schools of their choice. She’s also President-elect Donald Trump’s pick to run the Education Department.
Then, will NASA cease doing climate research under a Trump presidency, and if so what would the consequences be?
The author of a new book about the weird creatures of the wild shares his findings.
And finally, a peek into the business of fake news, and the surprising culprits behind it.
What happens if NASA stops climate science research?

Celebrate all the moms in your life with official MLB Mother's Day Gear apparel and say thanks for all the great things mothers do. We have authentic gear for all 30 MLB teams including pink caps, t-shirts, accessories and more. Shop the best brands for mom, such as DKNY Sport, Keds and Dooney & Bourke, as well as Luca & Danni and Alex Woo jewelry. What better way to celebrate baseball and family than with official Mother's Day gear for her favorite team? Rely on MLB.com Shop for all the best apparel you'll find online.

Select a trusted local experienced plumbing professional when you feel the need to patch up boiler difficulties in your area urgently in Lewisham BR3.
I was really lucky that my boiler broke down when it did, as the experienced plumbing professional came quickly and had the right parts on hand to put right it in Lewisham BR3. Servicing your boiler can be costly. Avoid the heavy rate tag and speak with one of our plumbing engineers for a qualified yet affordable put right in Lewisham BR3. Waiting for the experienced plumbing professional to turn up is no great hardship when the getting the boiler serviced means you should to have a hot bath in Lewisham BR3. If you need a speedy boiler put right there is a fast and reliable plumbing put right in your area in Lewisham BR3.
I had some problems with my boiler a few months ago, but It is been running fine ever since the experienced plumbing expert visited to patch up it in Lewisham BR3.
Anyone can tell you that trying to wash in cold water is miserable, but thankfully professional trained plumbers who can repair boilers are not hard to find in Lewisham BR3. It can be tempting to attempt and repair your heating instrument singlehandedly - but using a certified plumbing technician offers of the enjoyment of the fullness of luck of mind, reliability and a long-term solution in Lewisham BR3. Boiler service and value can come hand in hand. You can make smart decisions when choosing the right company in Lewisham BR3. It is desirable to try and maintain the condition of your heating tool with punctual inspections that technology if a quandary does arise, the professional will be able to mend the boiler before the condition worsens in Lewisham BR3. I need to get someone in to patch up the boiler, but I'm not sure where I should look to find someone decent in Lewisham BR3.
Caused by the internet, you no longer need to wonder if the expert in plumbing you hire to repair your heating system is any good in Lewisham BR3.
Inevitably, your boiler is going to break — when it does, try looking on the internet for a successful skilled plumbing expert to mend it in Lewisham BR3. Chattering teeth? Our boiler mend team will have you warm and cosy in two shakes of a lambs tail in Lewisham BR3! So lots of things at residence rely on hot water tank, from your hot taps and shower to of the washing machine and the dishwasher, so a quick boiler fix is needed to keeping things running in Lewisham BR3. Trust a local tradesman to do a great job on any boiler service problems you is not unlikely to be experiencing in Lewisham BR3. From low pressure to the boiler not igniting, there are plenty of reasons as to why you may need to boiler service services. Leave it to our certified plumbing technicians to identify the hiccup and provide an accurate - and affordable - solution in Lewisham BR3.
I hope the qualified plumbing specialist can come and patch up the boiler soon because there are only so a slew of blankets I can wrap myself in in Lewisham BR3.
When you are looking for boiler mend services that are economical and professional with a straightforward fix look no further than us. Get in touch today for a quote in Lewisham BR3. If a much-needed boiler patch up has left your house freezing, our organisation will sort it out ASAP in Lewisham BR3!
One of the quickest techniques to spot a issue within your boiler is to check the water pressure; then you will need a repairman to repair the boiler. It could possibly be that your boiler has a leak, or there could possibly be a predicament with the pressure gauge on your boiler in Lewisham BR3. If your boiler doesn't seem to be working, do not to to start to panic about the costs associated with a new boiler. A specialist will usually tell you that you do not need to substitute the boiler, and you might it is in your trump need to fix the boiler instead in Lewisham BR3. A broken boiler can be a difficult situation to manage, as it results in no heating or hot water within your dwelling It would be desirable to aim to get a trained to service your boiler in a jiffy, and most professionals will offer cost-effective solutions in Lewisham BR3.
Waking up to find out that your residence is cold can be daunting, and we understand that you want the problem or concern to be resolved as quickly as possible. Luckily, we work around the clock, and we aim to patch up your heating equipment and bring your home back up to a normal temperature as fast as possible in Lewisham BR3.
There are zillions of components inside of your boiler, and that is why you should to permanently let a qualified put right a boiler that has broken in Lewisham BR3. Previously I’d had so zillions of issues with boiler mend but all that seems to be a thing of the past in Lewisham BR3. Living without electric water heater is no fun at all, so be sure to intervene in a certified plumbing specialist fast to mend your broken boiler in Lewisham BR3. Is your office without heat and electric water heater? Our boiler service will have your home toasty again at the speed of light in Lewisham BR3. We believe in being completely transparent when we come to fix your boiler, so we will give you a fixed rate before we to attack to find a solution to the headache in Lewisham BR3.
Choosing a trustworthy plumbing specialist is needed to making sure your heating utensil patch up is handled promptly and professionally in Lewisham BR3.
Always remember that using a cheap or unqualified tradesman for boiler set right can result in future costs in Lewisham BR3. We pride ourselves on a quickly and insightful boiler set right set right. Do not waste time - and risk your safety - by attempting the method yourself. Get in touch today in Lewisham BR3. From emergency boiler set right to limescale build up, our services are comprehensive and affordable. Ring us today for a free quote in Lewisham BR3. Business tenants require heating and electric heater ball ball at all times, so landlords are recommended to have a reliable boiler set right set right in Lewisham BR3. When a technician comes to set right your heating device you might have to take advantage whether you want the set right, or whether you want to replace the boiler. If the boiler is beyond tired then you should to aim to alter it; otherwise, you will be losing money in the long run in Lewisham BR3.
If limescale has built up within your boiler, then your Boiler in wood Safe engineer will have to do a power flush to put right the boiler. This can aid to get rid of the debris that has built up within the system in Lewisham BR3.
Sick of waiting around for boiler fix Our dedicated team can always be trusted to arrive at the agreed time in Lewisham BR3. Don’t wait around; our super-fast boiler patch up patch up will have your headaches sorted double quick in Lewisham BR3. Having your heating system do disappear is no fun at all, so it helps to be able to look online on the internet for a insured plumbing engineer to patch up it in Lewisham BR3.
Our expert team take away the stress of diagnosing and fixing boiler service issues with as little bother as possible in Lewisham BR3. Before servicing your heating system, one of our expert certified plumbing specialists will explain the system to you completely, so you know exactly what is happening in Lewisham BR3.
As time passes, we continually need to renovate and renovate our homes. It may conceivably be a loose plasterboard or a wobbly floorboard. Most of these small difficulties can wait for a while, but when our heating stops working, we need to take the right steps to put right the boiler right away in Lewisham BR3.
Our dedicated team can continually be trusted to deliver a boiler mend service that guarantees punctuality, value and quality in Lewisham BR3. Looking online for a experienced plumbing professional to patch up the boiler can be uncomfortable as there are so plenty of different options in Lewisham BR3. Quickly getting your heating equipment serviced is required to minimise the amount of disruption the breakdown root root causes you in Lewisham BR3. Our group pride themselves on offering a high-quality boiler patch up mend without the big bills you would expect in Lewisham BR3. This company will support customers with a team of expert tradesmen who can fix boiler complications fast in Lewisham BR3.
Finding a successful skilled plumbing specialist to attend to your heating equipment set right can be nightmare — thankfully, the internet is a huge resource that can help in Lewisham BR3.
After hundreds of quotes between 250 and 300 euros I discovered this site on the Internet and for a reasonable prthe mirror and a correct fix the reparation, Carried out. Do not hesitate.

So, you suffer from Hay Fever or Allergic Rhinitis and are trying to decide which air purifier is most likely to help you, well you have come to the right place, we have great first hand experience of Hay fever in this office (unfortunately!) , and think we can definitely help to point you in the right direction, read on for our guide on choosing the best air purifier for relief from Hay Fever.
What is the most important thing to consider?
When it comes to removing tree , grass and shrub pollens the most important ingredient your air purifier must have is a good level of suction. Yup, that's right, the air purifier you choose will almost certainly have a filter capable of trapping those allergens, but if it doesn't have enough suction to actually draw them towards it quickly enough then it will not be of much use.
How do you work out how quickly an air purifier will gobble up those offending allergens then?
The first thing is to compare the CADR ( Clean Air Delivery Rate ) of the machines you are interested in. Generally speaking a higher CADR rating means quicker removal of the offending allergens in your room.
In order to be truly effective in gobbling up pollens an air purifier needs to be powerful enough to recirculate all of the air in YOUR room size through its filter as frequently as possible. As a guide, try to choose a machine which has enough air volume to process all the air in your largest room at least 3 times an hour. If you can get one which provides around 4 or 5 times an hour that would be even better.
The CADR rating on a box tells a consumer how efficient an air purifier is at actually removing the three main indoor pollutants, namely Pollen, Smoke and Dust. In this case, as a Hay Fever sufferer you should try to choose one where the pollen figure is highest. Clean Air Delivery Rate testing is carried out by an impartial and independent organisation called AHAM - a word of caution here though - not all manufacturers submit their units for certified testing to AHAM and may instead just list their own 'in house' test results on the box. If you want to be certain of what you are buying always choose a machine which has the genuine 'AHAM Certified' Seal on the box.
BEWARE of the manufacturers over inflated 'recommended room sizes'.
This is where we believe most consumers get misled into spending good money on something which is never going to be powerful enough to provide them with genuine relief from their Hayfever. Manufacturers usually state on the product box and specification list that the air purifier is 'For Rooms up to...' and then quote a room size usually given in square metres (m2). This information is completely worthless unless it is also followed by another figure telling you how long it will take to clean the air in that size of room.
One blatant example of this currently available on the High Street is an air purifier range manufactured by VAX which on the face of it seems to be reasonable value for money. One of their units available for £199 in Argos has a Pollen CADR rating of 240. So we know it is capable of removing pollens and according to the manufacturers specification the unit is suitable for rooms up to 103m2. However, when you calculate the CADR rating and divide it into the claimed room size, it shows that the unit would take 65 minutes to clean the air once in a room that size, equating to a very poor 0.93 air changes an hour. Remember, we already know that an air purifier needs to provide at least 3-5 air changes an hour to be genuinely effective at removing allergens!
Another VAX unit at £94.99 claims it will remove over 99% of allergens in rooms up to 87m2. Yet once again taking the CADR figure and working out the results clearly shows that this unit will take 69 minutes to purify the air once in that room size, equating to just 0.8 air changes an hour. These air purifiers may well still be effective in reducing Hay Fever symptoms, but realistically the room sizes in which they will be able to perform well are about 5 times smaller than those quoted.
OK, enough of the technical stuff!
To cut through the numbers and make life a little simpler for us all, we have put together a list of air purifiers which we know will provide up to 5 air changes per hour in their recommended room size, and all of which have genuine AHAM certified CADR ratings. Simply click the link below to view our Air Purifiers for Hay Fever section As always, we do love to talk to our customers so please do not be hesitant, pick up the phone and give us a call on the number at the top of the page - or use our live chat to ask anything you want to know and we will do our best to help!

"You have a bunch of stuff and still talk about simplicity, what's with that?"
Well, I have accumulated a few things in my life. I used to make a lot of money (relatively speaking). I bought the Mercedes, the toys, the stuff.
I have gotten rid of a lot, and am trying to learn to get rid of the rest. I want to keep only what I need, and maybe a few wants. It is hard. I grew up with little, so when I was making decent money, I wanted to buy the stuff I never had. Over time I have come to the realisation the stuff never made me happy. I found the doing is better than the having.
I have acquired many of the things I have by coincidence or luck. I am not afraid to dumpster-dive. I take my kids if I can, we make it a game. I have stopped on the side of the road to pick up something that someone else is tossing out. My wheelbarrow came from the dump, some guy was tossing it because "it's annoying", whatever that means.
I have traded a lot. Craigslist is my friend when it comes to trading.
Value is the governing factor with the things I possess. I was going to say own, but I don't think I own anything, I just possess it until it leaves my possession. I still have trouble letting go though, some things just have too much potential.
I feel qualified to share my experiences and tips with the world because I am actually doing every one of the steps on my list. I have been unemployed for 16 months (I did work for two months in the middle there). For ten of those months I collected no unemployment benefits. I now am collecting unemployment benefits (I felt that I shouldn't do it, but someone reminded me that it was my money). I am going to school on the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill, and making it work on the little money I get from these two sources. My wife is a nurse and can make good money, but we choose for her to work less so she can be home for the summer with the kids. During the rest of the year she works and we save, we have eliminated most of our bills to make this a possibility. I am now unemployed by choice because juggling school, work, and kids is too much for anyone person and my heart goes out to those that manage to do it. My wife was in that position when we met and I quickly convinced her to stop working and let me handle the money part so she could continue her schooling. I saw how hard it can be, and do not want to do that myself (she is definitely stronger than me).
I like stuff, it is programmed into me from my childhood, from TV, from the outside forces of the media and U.S. culture. I am trying to de-program myself.
Instead of working hard just so we can pay the credit card bills and loans for the stuff we don't need, we work what we need to, just so we can do the things that give us the one thing we truly own, memories.
I've recently started reading your blog after a connection from the Bike Trailer Blog. Your situations sound very similar to mine. I applaud you for continuing education even though it may be hard financially for your family. My wife supported me and worked while I finished my degree, though we didn't have our daughter until I graduated and got my first salary job. Now my wife doesn't work so she can stay home with the little one (18 months).
You also posted about getting rid of your car. This is something I did about 6 months ago. We have one car (Honda CRV) and I bike to work everyday though it's a short 10 blocks. I can say we are just now over the initial regret stage and are enjoying it. I have sacrificed a few things, but I have also gained a few things (non-material).
I have a book recommendation for you since you're talking about getting rid of stuff. "Put Your Life on a Diet". This is a short read by a guy who lives by himself in a small 140 Sq. Ft. trailer. He's not saying you should live in a trailer, but he does have lots of ideas about slimming down not only yourself but everything else in your life. I was very inspired by this and have recently rid my entire house of things that haven't been used in one year (to the tune of about $400). Like you I am also a Craigslist veteran.
I can't say I share your view on tools though. I feel it's less important to have a good set of tools and more important to have a neighbor who has a good set of tools (and a good relationship with such a neighbor). I've cleaned my gutters quarterly using my neighbor's 10 ft. step ladder.

How to win more tennis matches is the 23rd in a series of reprinted articles written by pro tennis coach Jay Davern. The two pages below is the original “Home Ground Advantage” article published in Australian Tennis Magazine in the December 2005 issue.... In order to play to your potential in golf or in tennis, you need to know how to how stay confident, how to stay relaxed and how to stay focused.
To win a tennis match, a player has to be mentally and physically strong. On top of that, one must also be fit and have a preparation routine before every match. The following key points will teach you how to win a tennis match:... I. How To Win A Tennis Match – 5 Tennis Playing Tips. If you are new to sports and interested in learning how to play tennis, or even you are a person with fundamental backgrounds of tennis techniques, you still should not omit the new revolutionary information in this report.
Before you can implement a match strategy you need to have developed your own table tennis skills to a sufficient standard. This means that you must be able to keep the ball in play for an extended period of time, and also be able to direct the ball to different positions on the table tennis table.
Tennis is the ultimate mind game. Two players can be neck-and-neck until the first set tiebreaker - yet whoever wins it will most often run out an easy second set, 6-1!
10. Pay Attention to the Speed of Play. This includes ball speed as well as between point and changeover playing speed. If the opponent prefers an aggressive, quick pace of play, slow it down.
Seattle, WA (PRWEB) October 24, 2013. The article is divided into two parts that cover top ten eating and playing tips on how to win a tennis match easily.
Get free Tennis betting tips & predictions for all ATP & WTA tour events. Read today's tips for Wimbledon, Australian, French, and US Open and sign up for the top odds today!

Sellers who are non-residents (eg. foreigners living abroad and Japanese citizens living abroad).
Buyers, both local and overseas residents, who are buying real estate in Japan from a non-resident.
If the seller of Japanese real estate is a non-resident, depending on the situation, the buyer must withhold 10.21% of the sale price and pay it to the tax office, with the remaining 89.79% paid to the seller. The buyer is responsible for paying the 10.21% to the tax office by the 10th of the month following the transaction.
It is your obligation to make this payment to the tax office by the deadline. If you are currently living overseas, you will need to appoint a tax representative or accountant to pay this on your behalf. You will need to appoint a tax representative in Japan to file a final tax return to have the remainder returned to you (less any taxes that may have been owed).
*If the payment of deposits and mid-term payments also meet the conditions for withholding tax, the tax must be withheld and paid by the buyer at each payment.
The above information has been provided as a general guide only. For more details on this tax, and for other detailed tax questions, please consult with the tax office or a specialist tax accountant.

CLEMSON, S.C. — Jaron Blossomgame scored a season-high 29 points to lead Clemson to a 93-65 victory over SC State on Tuesday, the Tigers’ fifth straight win, all at home. Blossomgame moved into the top 20 in Clemson history in career scoring, surpassing 1,300 points. Clemson moved to 7-2 with the win, while SC State dropped to 2-8 overall. In all, the Tigers had four scorers in double figures, including Shelton Mitchell (14), Donte Grantham (13) and Avry Holmes (10). The Tigers had just two turnovers for the game, the second-lowest figure in program history. Clemson had 17 assists on 36 baskets and outscored the Bulldogs by a whopping 52-28 margin in the paint. Blossomgame provided early energy, going upstairs to land a couple of high-flying alleyoops. He posted 15 of his points before intermission, helping Clemson to a lead of as many as 13 in the opening frame. The Tigers saw SC State hang around, as the Bulldogs converted 50 percent of their field goal attempts in the opening 20 minutes of play. Clemson stretched its second-half advantage to 20 for the first time when Grantham emphatically followed a Holmes miss, throwing down a one-handed slam to bring the crowd to its feet. The Tigers take to the road against a pair of SEC foes, playing Alabama on Sunday, Dec. 18 in Birmingham, before facing rival South Carolina three days later in Columbia.
“This was a really good offensive performance. Certainly, having 17 assists and only two turnovers were big stats, as well as the 23 offensive rebounds. We knew, especially when they played small, that we could hurt them inside.

As a parent, you have the most significant role in shaping your children. You have the opportunity to help your child excel in academics, but also in life. Empowering children goes beyond nagging them to do homework or offering rewards for good grades. Those things are often necessary, but empowerment takes more.
Empowering your children means using words and encouragement to help them develop self confidence, a sense of identity and a safe environment to explore their interests and even fail. Empowering children takes work, so how will you feel empowered to empower your children?
Take a look at your child’s long term goals. Sit down and develop these goals together. Look beyond getting an A in biology this semester and talk about what career goals they have and what kind of person they want to become. When both you and your child have a long term vision, you will know the most helpful ways to empower your child. As you see them accomplish their goals, you will see how your role has been beneficial for them.
Keep track of your child’s accomplishments. This includes grades and exam scores, but also includes social accomplishments, caring for their community, investing in an outside interest, and acts of kindness that display integrity and character. No child gets it right all of the time, so when you are feeling frustrated by a particular behavior you can remember all of their accomplishments and see the growth and development they are experiencing.
Teenage years are tender years and need to be navigated with extreme care. You are constantly figuring out how to communicate with your teenager and discovering what freedoms and boundaries they need. You are resolving conflicts and at times making necessary demands. This can be exhausting. Take time to engage in some activities you enjoy. Get plenty of exercise and sleep to help relieve stress. The better you feel about yourself, the more you will be able to empower your student.
Ultimately, make sure you are communicating with your child. You will know what problems they are facing and you will be able to empower them to solve those problems. Children that feel empowered, loved, safe and cared for will find ways to be successful in life.

At four types of wall plugs are shown: a, the ordinary rectangular tapered wall plug to drive between the joints of the brickwork; b, the circular tapered wall plug as used to plug a wall after a star-shaped brick drill has been used; d, a twisted wall plug used for similar purposes to the wedge a, but considered to be superior in holding power owing to its twisted formation; c is another type of wall plug considered to have great tenacity by reason of its corrugations. Wall plugs are required in nearly all cases where it is necessary to joint woodwork to brickwork, as, for instance, heavily-framed silvered mirrors to the walls of shops.
Fig. 364.—Wall Plugs, Four Varieties.
Fig. 366.—Slot Screwing a Bracket.
Slot Screwing, or Keyhole Screwing, is a most useful way of joining light woodwork in such a manner that the fixing method is not exposed to the eye. A stout screw is inserted to within 3⁄8 in. of the head, as at . In the adjoining piece a hole is bored with a centre bit and a slot is cut with an 1⁄8 in. chisel. The two pieces of timber are placed together, and by sliding the upper piece forward the screw runs up into the slot or keyhole and secures the joint. shows the application of the joint fixing a shaped bracket to the shaped shelf; the bracket and shelf are inverted in the illustration to clearly show the method of jointing. For heavy work special brass plates are obtainable for this purpose; one plate is let flush into the upper piece and the other plate into the lower piece.
Battening .—A good method of joining cross battens to drawing boards and other wide surfaces is shown here. After boring for the screws, slots are cut so as to allow the screws to move along the slots when shrinkage takes place. In a similar method is applied to secure the drawer bottom to the drawer back. If shrinkage takes place in the drawer bottom and it leaves the groove in the drawer front, the screws are slackened, the drawer bottom is knocked up into the groove, and the screws again inserted. For drawing boards, etc., specially made elliptical-shaped slotted brass socket cups are made to receive the screw heads.

Program in Teaching French as a Foreign Language was established in 1985 under the Department of Foreign Education. 2 full professors,3 assistant professors and 3 research assistant are currently working in the department. The Program in Teaching French as a Foreign Language offers both undergraduate and post graduate programs. The students who are enrolled to these programs take a language proficiency exam and if their language level is below the required level, they follow the preparatory language program for the first year.

Natasha Hutchison, originally from the United States, relocated to the Highlands to study part time on our MSc Sustainable Mountain Development. She now works as a Project Officer for Wester Ross Biosphere.
"I was looking for a course with flexible delivery so I could study from home at a time that suited me. I considered the Open University but felt it was rather ‘faceless’. Whereas this university has campuses all around the Highlands and Islands and is a recognised name and brand.
I feel extremely lucky that I have been able to utilise my postgraduate qualification locally, working with the communities and exploring opportunities which can create a sustainable legacy for decades to come. This was helped by support from well-connected and internationally recognised tutors, in particular, Professor Martin Price, who holds several high-profile positions out with the specific world of academia, including the UNESCO Chair of Sustainable Mountain Development."
Where would you like to go with your career in the future?
It is exciting to be part of a 'model' area in sustainable development, and I hope that we will be able to assist our future generations in continuing this legacy.

Since January 1, 2004, all Canadian organizations engaged in commercial activities have been required to comply with the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act(“PIPEDA”) and the Canadian Standards Association Model Code for the Protection of Personal Information incorporated by reference into PIPEDA. These obligations extend to lawyers and law firms, including Lawson Clark & Oldman.
We use your personal information to provide legal advice and services to you, to issue invoices and to maintain our database of clients. In addition, if you apply for a position with Lawson Clark & Oldman, we will use your personal information to assess your candidacy. Lastly, we may use your contact information (name, e-mail and postal address) so that we may communicate with you about recent developments in the law, keep you abreast of firm news and invite you to our firm events.
You may withdraw your consent to our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information at any time, subject to legal and/or contractual restrictions and upon reasonable notice. Your withdrawal of consent to our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information may impact our ability to represent you and provide you with legal advice. You can ask us not to send you marketing communications by following the opt-out instructions in each communication or you may let us know by contacting us at info@lcolaw.ca.
Lawson Clark & Oldman uses various safeguards to ensure that your personal information is protected against loss, theft, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, copying or alteration. These include: security of our physical premises; our professional obligations; security software and firewalls to prevent unauthorized computer access or “hacking”; and internal passwords that restrict access to our electronic files.
You have a right to challenge the accuracy and completeness of your personal information and to have it amended, as appropriate. You also have a right to request access to your personal information and receive an accounting of how that information has been used and disclosed, subject to certain exceptions prescribed by law. For example, if the requested information would reveal personal information about another individual, your request for access may be limited or denied. If your request for access is denied, Lawson Clark & Oldman will notify you in writing of the reason for the denial.
To request access or to amend your personal information, please contact the lawyer with whom you normally correspond.
Lawson Clark & Oldman will respond to inquiries about its policies and practices relating to its handling of your personal information. Inquiries should be directed to Lawson Clark & Oldman. If the complaint is found to be justified, Lawson Clark & Oldman will take appropriate measures to resolve it, including, if necessary, amending this Policy and its procedures.
If you have any questions or complaints about this Policy or the handling of your personal information, if you wish to withdraw your consent to our use of your personal information, or to request access to or update any information we have on file, please contact our firm.

It’s the Capital’s first 24-hour Television Channel and it is on air!
London Live says during its broadcasts it will be offering fresh and new content devoted exclusively to an estimated 9 million diverse viewers.
However, its the 18 – 34 age group it is targeting. It hopes they will pick up their remote controls, press 8 on Freeview, 117 on Sky or 159 on Virgin to view their new channel.
The new 24 hour TV channel promises it will be smart, fun and “inside London” making a big difference to Londoners lives. It is backed by the Russian owner of the Evening Standard and The Independent, Evgeny Lebedev. He believes it will succeed even though previous attempts failed.
London Live won a licence last year. The Department for Culture, Media and Sport awarded 19 new local TV channels at the same time.
Some critics have no doubt that London Live will fit in with the TV landscape but there’s lots of competition out there for people’s attention. But there are some who believe that local TV broadcast through the television screen is not going to have a long life.
But I’m afraid that in the end it’s going to be about advertising and sponsor revenue and not the current BBC model – if they DO NOT get to the correct target market for the London area then when their ‘free funding’ dries up they will then be out in the real World????
Well, unless the Russian puts his own money in there of course, otherwise it could be history repeating itself???
Already you can see the presenters have lost some of their ‘happy ‘ style. Many of them are looking tired and overworked.
But what is unfortunate about its output is that it cuts off everyone over 34 years of age.

Washington – The Republican leaders in Congress are distancing themselves from President Donald Trump’s invitation for Vladimir Putin to visit Washington in the fall, saying the Russian president is not welcome on Capitol Hill.
Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell have shown no interest in holding meetings with Putin if he accepts Trump’s invitation to the White House to follow up on last week’s summit in Helsinki.
“The speaker and I have made it clear that Putin will not be welcome up here at the Capitol,” McConnell told reporters Tuesday.
But it may not matter anyway. Putin’s foreign affairs adviser Yuri Ushakov threw cold water on the prospect of Putin accepting Trump’s invitation to visit the White House.
Ushakov told journalists in Moscow on Tuesday that no preparations were underway for a meeting in Washington and there were “other options that our leaders could consider,” such as the late November meeting of the Group of 20 in Argentina or another international event that both would attend.
Lawmakers from both parties have raised concerns about Trump’s approach to the Russian leader. They strongly rebuked Trump’s comments during a joint press conference in Helsinki when he stood beside Putin and denied U.S. intelligence findings that Russia interfered in the 2016 election. Trump has since clarified his remarks to side with the intelligence community.
“The Russians better quit messing around in our elections,” McConnell said.

The Western Shoshone call themselves Newe, “The People,” and they refer to their ancestral lands as Newe Sogobia, “The People’s Land.” After living on these lands for thousands of years, the Newe have spent the last 400 defending them from invasion and environmental destruction. Today, the U.S. government occupies much of the Newe Sogobia, using it as a domestic nuclear war zone. The Nevada Test Site was illegally seized from the tribe in the 1940s to use for nuclear weapons testing and as a dump for highly radioactive nuclear waste. Releases of radiation from the detonation of over 1000 nuclear weapons above and below the ground have resulted in cancer clusters and contamination in the communities downwind of the site – and beyond. Newe homelands have been turned into a National Sacrifice Area, or permanently poisoned lands. The latest threat to the Newe is the planned nuclear waste dump at Yucca Mountain located within the Nevada Test Site. The repository will accept over 75,000 tons of fuel rods and other high-level waste across roads and rails from 39 states and place it in a giant hole in the earth found to be seismically unstable and in contact with ground water. Plutonium, the most deadly man-made substance on earth, has a radioactive half-life of 250,000 years, and its nearby storage portends an unparalleled toxic peril for the next 12,000 generations living in the region.
Wherever Corbin Harney raises his voice, be it in song, in prayer, or in speech, be it at his homeland, at the UN, or in faraway Kazakhstan, his message is informed with the calm authority imbued him by the earth. In 1994, Corbin Harney founded the Shundahai Network (Shundahai is the Newe word for “peace and harmony with all creation”), a non-profit organization dedicated to breaking the nuclear chain by building alliances with indigenous communities and environmental, peace and human rights movements. They seek to abolish all nuclear weapons and end all nuclear testing, advocate phasing out nuclear energy and ending the transportation and dumping of nuclear waste, and promote the principles of Environmental Justice. Their campaigns and events incorporate the values of community building, education, spiritual ceremonies and nonviolent direct action.
I ask for moisture to fall upon us so the grass will start to grow.
what we humans tramp down.
we tramp it down so it’s flat on the ground.
together we have to ask for the rain to come down, so the grass will continue to grow.
Corbin Harney’s spiritual strength has become a fountainhead of inspiration for environmental activists around the world. His solution to end the Nuclear Age: we must live in vital, spiritual connection with the earth!

UN's Sustainable Development Goal 3, which promotes health and well-being for all, helps balance healthcare provision and healthcare financing, as well as addressing various challenges faced by ordinary citizens. The complexities of healthcare access and financing were clearly shown in a moving life experience of a 13-year old Nigerian orphan named Praise Sunday during a church service on Sunday 12th February 2017 at The Synagogue, Church Of All Nations (SCOAN), Lagos, Nigeria.
In an armed robbery on May 8th 2016, Praise Sunday tragically lost his mother and sister. During this ordeal, the young boy, whose father passed away several years earlier, sustained life-threatening injuries to his throat.
Praise and his extended family members sought medical assistance across Nigeria, depleting their financial means as he underwent seven surgeries. Left with a tracheostomy tube in his throat which enabled him to breathe, he was completely unable to talk and communicated only through writing. In September 2016, they sought aid at The SCOAN, a religious institution known for its extensive charitable endeavours. The General Overseer, T.B. Joshua, through the humanitarian arm of his faith-based organization, financed a delicate and complex health procedure carried out in Life Vincent Pallotti Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.
Specialists, Dr Martin Vanlierde and Professor Mark De Groot, undertook the corrective surgery to restore Praise's ability to both breathe and speak normally again. The procedure was successful and his speedy recovery exceeded expectations. The total cost of Praise's travelling expenses, welfare and medical bills was US$50,000 - all financed by T.B. Joshua's faith-based organisation.
During a live broadcast of his story on Emmanuel TV, T.B. Joshua addressed the congregation, encouraging faith leaders and medical doctors to work together to address the societal conundrum, related to healthcare access today. He said: "If God's servants and doctors work together, there will be no limit to what they can achieve. The medicine doctors use comes from nature and our God is the God of nature."
The SCOAN has previously financed other medical trips, including a Nigerian policeman who received more than $25,000 to be flown to India for a complicated medical procedure to restore his damaged urinary system after he was shot by gunmen during duty hours.
With their collaborative effort, faith-based organisations, such as The SCOAN, which helped turn a young boy's ordeal into an inspiring story, can largely enhance healthcare access and its financing.

Athlone Community Radio will be broadcasting live for 4 hours from Golden Island Shopping Centre in Athlone, the heart of Ireland, to Celebrate World Radio Day 2019. Our live broadcast will begin at 12pm and finish at 4pm. The Theme of World Radio Day is “Dialogue, Tolerance and Peace”.
This hour will feature local Musicians from Athlone. We will discuss how music plays a key role in promoting Tolerance , Dialogue and Peace. This programme will be presented by presenter/Sound Engineer with the station and also a musician Cathal McCormack.
Athlone Today is our daily current affairs programme. We will be delving into the World Radio Theme 2019 of tolerance, dialogue and peace in our community. We will feature an interview with renowned expert in Media Literacy Irena Djak Cvetkovic on access to media, creation of Media and the critical evaluation of media and how media can play a part in this theme. With over 20 years of experience in training, Deridre Hunt shares her unique perspective into the world of training and radio. Nikki Dube who presented radio in South Africa to over 1 million listeners gives us an insight into the importance of Radio as tool for Community Development. Presenter and Producer of the Arts Programme,Philomena Barry, chats about Radio in Gambia. Writer Aidan Shortall has written a special poem entitled "Dialogue, Tolerance and Peace” to mark the theme.

Come in and join the fiesta of music, and dancing in this Latin theme from IGT’s video slot game call Latino Machino. This game if full of fun and excitement with the generous wins and bonus games. This game has 25 paylines where the each payline could be program to take one to fifty credits per payline for a maximum bet of a 1250 credits. The maximum payout with the maximum bet of a 1250 credits is 500,000 credits when five Latino Machineo logo symbols are shown on a paid payline. Some of symbols that are in this game are the woman dancer, man dancer, guitar man, a piñata, monkey, and a Cucaracha symbols. The monkey symbol is a scattered symbol where three or symbols can be shown anywhere on any paid payline to award the slot player five to 100 times the total bet. Also, the Cucaracha symbol is wild and matches many of the other symbols. This video slot game has two bonus games, the La Piñata Loca bonus game and the Cucaracha bonus game.
The La Piñata Loca Bonus is initiated by three piñata symbols are shown on a played line. If the initiating combination appears on more than one played line, upon completion of the bonus, the total bonus award is multiplied by the total number of initiating lines. The slot player is awarded a number of picks by selecting one of three icons. One at a time picks are made from 15 piñatas. Of the 15 piñatas, one contains the Coin Game, one contains Mas Piñatas with a value, and 13 contain values only.

The madness of the 2012 NBA Draft, from Dion Waiters' rise to Kentucky's historic six-man draft class.
As always, the NBA Draft started at breakneck speed. Commissioner David Stern came out from behind his almighty Oz curtain and was greeted as he has been for years — with aggressive booing from the Prudential Center crowd.
“Thank you for the warm reception,” Stern said, in a tone normally reserved for Jim Rome.
From there, the parade of bad suits, embarrassing family and awkward TV could not be stopped.

Seeking a dedicated individual to conduct rights and clearances for independent documentaries. This position is ideal for IP lawyers, law students or journalists with an interest in film or television, and aspiring entertainment lawyers.
Legal experience or special counsel experience & excellent writing skills, good communication skills and contracts know how.
Interlock Media, Inc. located in Kendall Square, MA, is an activist film company that points to solutions for environmental, human rights and public health challenges. We support informed policy by producing entertaining documentary and dramatic media works.

FH PRO Omega 3 contains the fats you need to support optimal reproductive health and fertility. Includes pharmaceutical grade EPA and DHA for maximum purity and quality.
Do you have a fear of dietary fat? If your answer is yes, it wouldn’t be surprising, given that for several decades now we have been told that eating foods that contain fat is bad for our waistlines and our hearts. This fear of dietary fat has given rise to a huge demand for low fat foods, and the aisles of the grocery store are now stocked with reduced-fat and fat-free options of just about every food imaginable. But, unfortunately, our obsession with avoiding all types of dietary fat comes at a cost for fertility. While it is certainly true that too much of the wrong types of fat, namely saturated fats and trans fats, are not good for our overall health, there are certain types of fat that are, in fact, essential to good health and optimal fertility. FH Pro Omega 3 contains the fats you need to support optimal reproductive health and fertility.
FH-Pro Omega 3 for Men and Women contains oil only from small fish, including herring, mackerel, sardines and anchovies, caught in the cold water of Iceland using sustainable fishing practices. The EPA and DHA-rich oil is then processed in a GMP (good manufacturing practices)-compliant facility to remove heavy metals and pesticides, resulting in premium quality fish oil that is pharmaceutical grade and meets or exceeds all official regulations related to environmental contaminants.
I have been trying to concieve for years and have tried different omega-3’s. This one is small and doesn’t leave a bad after taste. I wouldn’t use any other brand, I love it!
one of the better i’ve found, they are pretty small and don’t have a bad aftertaste like most others.

The High brightness is being compared to 350 Watts conventional xenon light source that can be utilized for critical illness like laparoscopy without any problem and with utmost ease.
It has an extended service life, which means it can easily last for 60000 hours at a max, which is 120 times of xenon. This further emphasises that one doest not need to change the bulb for a number of years and can be used for a long time.
We have an extensive range of power from 100 to 240 V / AC; 50 / 60 Hz.
The perfect colour temperature ranges from 5000 K to 6500 K, and the colour rendering is over 70.
It does not gives out light in the Ultra Violet or Infrared Rays.
The customized connector, it accepts fibre light directs with dynamic and on the go areas varying from 3 mm to 10 mm in diameter or span.
It helps saves half the energy i.e. it will be more than 50%.
It is considered environment friendly.

The Small 2 Piece Sink Set is made for use in the kitchen sink area and is ideal for drying flatware, plates, bowls, and cups. It includes a dish drainer and drainboard that are attached, yet detach easily for cleaning. The dish drainer offers an oversized flatware holder and can comfortably accommodate 12 large plates and 8 cups. The inclined drainboard allows excess water to flow easily into the sink. The unique system of channeled grooves, hold dishes in place neatly and the perimeter cup holders around the sides hold a maximum of 8 cups. The overall dimensions of this item are 14 1/2" L x 12 5/8" W x 5 1/4" H.
Overall Assembled Size: 14 1/2" x 12 5/8" x 5 1/4"
Ideal for drying flatware, 12 large plates and 8 cups.
Inclined drainboard allows excess water to flow into the sink.
Small 2 Piece Sink Set is rated 4.5 out of 5 by 2.

This is a model of an RhB (Rhaetian Railroad) class ABe 8/12 "Allegra" powered rail car train. The paint and lettering are prototypical for Era VI. The model has traction tires and is driven on four wheelsets by two ball bearing Bühler motors. It has an mfx/DCC sound decoder with many sound and light functions. The pantographs can be raised and lowered digitally on both end cars. All the cars on the train have metal wheels, and the center car has wheelsets with ball bearings. All the doors can be opened. The model has many separately applied details such as conductors, plugs, windshield wipers, antennas, and rear-view mirrors. The model has sprung buffers and complete rail clearance devices (the center part of the rail clearance devices can be replaced with a standard LGB coupler that is included with the train). Length over the buffers 206 cm / 81-1/8".
LGB 22225 – RhB Class ABe 8/12 "Allegra" Powered Rail Car Train On October 14, 2009, the Rhaetian Railroad (RhB) set a new milestone in its tradition-filled history, because the first of 15 new three-part dual system powered rail car trains (11 kilovolts /16.7 Hertz and 1 kilovolt DC), the class "ALLEGRA", was festively received on this day in Landquart. The new train is not only highly modern, but it also conceals significant innovations and a lot of power inside. All the wheelsets are powered in both end cars. The multi-system drive equipment consists of 4 drive trains with water-cooled IGBT rectifiers and produces 2.6 megawatts / 3,485 horsepower with AC voltage (2.4 megawatts / 3,217 horsepower with 1 kilovolt DC). That is extremely high because the most powerful RhB locomotive, the high-performance class Ge 4/4 III, offers "only" 3.1 megawatts / 4,155 horsepower of performance. With 8 powered wheelsets and its performance, the "ALLEGRA" develops a correspondingly high tractive effort of 260 kilo newton / 58,450 pound-force, which exceeds that of the Ge 4/4 III by 30%. With it, the builder Stadler succeeded in creating a unique meter gauge powered rail car train in the entire world in terms of power density, performance, and weight. One special challenge here was to "stow" the power packets in the limited space beneath the powered rail car floor and on the roof, which also succeeded thanks to innovative solutions. The non-powered intermediate car offers comfortable entry with its depressed floor area, a handicap-accessible toilet, and storage space for baby strollers. There is space in the class ABe 8/12 with its fully air conditioned passenger areas for 24 seats in 1st class and 76 seats in 2nd class as well as additional fold-down seats and standing room. A modern passenger information system with flat screens is also standard. The ends of the powered rail car trains with the Grisons canton coat-of-arms lends the lower part of the cab with its shape coming to a point and the straight cab windows arching to the back a certain sharp edged look and it also symbolizes its power. The "ALLEGRA" can also claim a speed record for meter gauge trains because on December 20, 2010 unit 3502 reached a proud 145 km/h / 91 mph on a special run in the Vereina Tunnel.

Is Side Walk your business?
Whether you are starving or just need a quick bite, Side Walk is the perfect place to satisfy your hunger for good food. In a short span of time, this place has established its brand and is becoming a popular spot among locals and visitors alike. Side Walk believes that good ingredients leads to good food and it is for this reason you will find their food and beverages to be fresh, healthy and delicious. The speciality of Side Walk is in Fast Food,Light Bites, cuisines loved by foodies, which you must enjoy when you visit this place.
Side Walk is also known for its customer service and the excellent attention to detail. With many years of experience in the food and hospitality industry, Side Walk has made a name for itself in its space and has seen a growing list of loyal customers.
Too tired to dress up and go out to eat? Don't want to pause that binge watch session? Just order food to be delivered right to your doorstep. Side Walk offers home delivery and takeaway to all nearby areas.
The area of Sector 17 is a popular locality in the heart of Chandigarh making it a popular spot among locals and visitors alike. It is well connected by road and can be reached easily using public transport.
Side Walk accepts payments through GalaxyCard. Paying with GalaxyCard is both fast and easy. Simply scan the QR code or select the outlet inside the app.

The White Russian is among the most popular drinks in the country. This likely has to do with the fact that the ingredients are easy to obtain and it takes no special skills or tools to make. Beyond that, many find it the perfect libation for those who don’t like to drink much. While there is plenty of alcohol involved, the taste is smooth and almost makes you forget liquor is even involved.
The White Russian is among the most popular drinks in the country. This likely has to do with the fact that the ingredients are easy to obtain and it takes no special skills or tools to make. Beyond that, many find it the perfect libation for those who don't like to drink much. While there is plenty of alcohol involved, the taste is smooth and almost makes you forget liquor is even included.
Our recipe is fairly straightforward. The drink is simple to make and best served layered. Pour the cream over the back of a barspoon to keep it floating on the top. The drinker may choose to stir it all together if desired. While our recipe uses the ratio of 2:1:1, some prefer this drink with a 1:1:1 ratio instead.
1: Add vodka to an old-fashioned glass filled with ice.
2: Add coffee liqueur and stir.
3: Pour cream over the back of a bar spoon.
4: Top with a grating of fresh nutmeg, if desired.
The White Russian is among the most popular drinks in the country. Many find it the perfect libation for those who don't like to drink much. While there is plenty of alcohol involved, the taste is smooth and almost makes you forget liquor is even included. Cream is poured over to finish the drink and give it that milky, delicious taste.
Often referred to as the oldest American cocktail, the Sazerac dates back to the pre-Civil War era. It has seen its share of changes, including the substitution of anise-flavored spirits when absinthe was banned in the US in 1912. Because of that, you may see some variation in recipes, but the basics remain.
Give a favorite childhood candy an adult twist by getting gummy worms drunk, then whipping up a tipsy worm's perfect match: a tasty, classic margarita.
Spice up happy hour with these unusual but oh-so-tasty beer cocktails.
This candy-infused frozen treat puts a grown-up twist on a childhood favorite.

The competition is open to all people from any country. Our primary focus is one of the most important issues we face in our times – banishing violence and inspiring people to encounter each other in a peaceful manner.
The main idea is to use our creative fantasy to make clearly formulated statements against violence. This approach gives all participants a chance to put their own abilities on display with compelling and fascinating creative works which set new standards. Valuable prizes and media coverage serve as an incentive.
Arnulfstrasse 2 (opposite the north side of the central station).
The award speech will be given by the well-known German TV emcee Dominik Schott and the ceremony will also feature comedy from noted political satirist Christof Knüsel. Guest are welcome to attend.

New England is a geographical region which comprises six states of the northeastern United States: Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont.
It is bordered by the state of New York to the west and the south, and the Canadian provinces of New Brunswick and Quebec to the northeast and north, respectively. The Atlantic Ocean is to the east and southeast, and Long Island Sound is to the south.
The puritan pilgrims from England first settled in the region in 1620, forming the Plymouth Colony, the first successful English settlement in the Americas. Ten years later, more Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in the greater Boston area, thus forming the Massachusetts Bay Colony.
You can take a virtual tour of the Mayflower ship, the first ship of the pilgrim in the video below. We take you inside the ship to show you how the early English immigrants lived, worked, slept, cooked and ate for months on a torturous and oftentimes dangerous ship journey.
Over the next 126 years, people in the region fought in four French and Indian Wars, until the British and their Iroquois allies defeated the French and their Algonquin allies in North America.
In 1692, the town of Salem, Massachusetts and the surrounding areas experienced one of the most infamous cases of mass hysteria in the history of the Western Hemisphere, the Salem witch trials.
In the late 18th century, political leaders from the New England Colonies known as the Sons of Liberty initiated the resistance to Britain’s efforts to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists.
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Britain responded with a series of punitive laws stripping Massachusetts of self-government. These were termed the “Intolerable Acts” by the colonists.
The confrontation led to the first battles of the American Revolutionary War in 1775, and the expulsion of the British authorities from the region in the spring of 1776.
The region played a prominent role in the movement to abolish slavery in the United States and was the first region of the U.S. transformed by the Industrial Revolution, centered on the Blackstone and Merrimack river valleys.
The physical geography of New England is diverse for such a small area. Southeastern New England is covered by a narrow coastal plain, while the western and northern regions are dominated by the rolling hills and worn-down peaks of the northern end of the Appalachian Mountains.
With the Atlantic fall line lying so close to the coast, numerous industrial cities were able to take advantage of water power along the numerous rivers, such as the Connecticut River, which bisects the region from north to south.
The region is particularly known for its beautiful fall foliage. Take a look at the beautiful New England scenery in the video below.
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities, which are known as towns. These are often governed by town meetings. The only unincorporated areas in the region exist in the sparsely populated northern regions of Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.
It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity, although the terms of this identity are often contrasted, combining Puritanism with liberalism, agrarian life with industry, and isolation with immigration.

Are you thinking of organizing a special day with your friends? Dallas Escalade Limousine Rental Services Transportation is the limo you want to have when entertaining your friends, family, wedding, prom dates with your closes friends. With more space than a standard limousine, more people can be included in all the fun. Wedding venues in Dallas Tx, Prom venues in Dalas Tx, Bachelorette Party Venues in Dallas Tx, night out in Dallas Tx, Dine In Dallas Tx.
Book a Escalade Limo with these best Anniversary ideas in Dallas Texas.
Bachelor Party Escalade Limousine Rental Services.
Enjoy champagne or wine to one of these top Bachelorette party ideas in your Escalade limo in Dallas.
Tour top breweries in Dallas in a Escalade Limo.
Don’t worry about parking at any concert when you reserve a Escalade Limousine.
Have your own designated driver with your Escalade limo.
Book a black Escalade limo in Dallas for Funerals, Wakes and Memorial Services.
White or black Escalade Limos available for High School Prom.
Tailgate in a Cadillac Escalade Limousine.
Enjoy the beautiful Dallas scenery in a Escalade Limo.
Check out a wine tasting tour in Dallas with some of the best wineries around in your Escalade Limo.
A Escalade limo is a great choice for your wedding get away cars and additional wedding transportation.

So here are the rules to enter! Make sure you are a fan of my page, then go check out Summit Spice and Tea. Show them some love! Then come back here and leave a comment on this post to enter. Please spread the love and support local by sharing this post on your page! Just come back and leave a second comment that you shared it on your FB page (extra entry for sharing 😀 ). If you don’t have FB just leave a comment here 😀 Easy Peasy! Comments close at 9 PM and I will I will randomly draw the winners from the comments. Unfortunately comments after 9 can’t be counted. If you don’t see your comment right away, don’t worry, there is a spam filter and all comments must be approved 😀 Good Luck and have fun!

Thanks to @Citi Foundation #ProgressMakers, Lesbia makes her career dream a reality!
When Lesbia was very young, her parents made a difficult decision. They wanted a better future for their family, so they moved from Central America to the U.S. to find it.
During that period, her parents were back and forth between the countries, and Lesbia rarely saw them. Six years later, she finally joined them on American soil.
When she started school, Lesbia couldn’t speak English. Other kids made fun of her name. She struggled.
But eventually, she learned to stop caring what other people thought. She realized that this new country held a wealth of opportunities.
As time went on and they worked to adjust to the U.S., other members of Lesbia’s family found Hispanic Unity of Florida (HUF). They referred her, and after obtaining a work permit, she was able to get temporary child care assistance at HUF.
HUF changed Lesbia’s life. She was supported by multiple HUF programs, including Income Support, Financial Literacy, and the Bridge Program, where she completed the Customer Service and Sales Training, as well as the Patient Care Technician EKG/Phlebotomy Training. She’s currently finishing a class in math at Sheridan Technical School, and has a bright future.
Thanks to HUF, Lesbia’s family will no longer live paycheck to paycheck, and she, her husband, and her children will live better lives.
The Bridge Program at Hispanic Unity opens up a world of opportunities! With the generous support of @Citi Foundation and the Community #ProgressMakers grant, program participants have access to tuition assistance for career pathways in high demand fields, including national certifications in Patient Care Technician (PCT) and Customer Service and Sales Training (CSST).
Thanks to @Citi Foundation #ProgressMakers, Marisol makes her dream a reality!
From Boston, to Puerto Rico, to Miami, Marisol has been following her American dream since birth.
Born in Boston, she spent several years in the historic city before her family relocated to Puerto Rico, where she grew up and attended school.
As an adult, Marisol made the difficult decision to move to Florida in search of a better future for her family. She sought more safety and security. Marisol was excited and deeply committed to grow and thrive in her new home!
Starting fresh presented numerous challenges, however. She struggled to find work while caring for her two beloved children.
Luckily, Marisol found Hispanic Unity of Florida. Her brother had participated in HUF’s Center for Working Families program and referred her.
Marisol took the many opportunities offered by HUF and ran with them. She received income support through gift cards, child care assistance, hurricane relief help, and affordable housing. She also entered the Bridge Program where she became certified through HUF’s Customer Service and Sales Representative (CSR) training.
Shortly thereafter, she was able to secure part-time employment. Marisol says that the training helped her be more in touch with clients and better understand their needs.
The hard-working mother wanted to take things further and thrive in a new career, so she completed HUF’s Patient Care Technician Program (PCT) at Sheridan Technical College – a highly specialized training with a focus on EKG and Phlebotomy.
Countless new opportunities are now available to Marisol, and she plans to move on into the Licensed Practical Nursing (LPN) Program. Eventually, she’ll work in a private practice, and she credits HUF for helping her to empower herself and help ensure her family’s successful future.
The Urban Institute recently released a research report titled Upskilling the Immigrant Workforce to Meet Employer Demand for Skilled Workers.
The report takes a look at the whole US but supplements its findings through site visits and interviews with a variety of stakeholders in three metro areas, Seattle, Dallas and Miami-Fort Lauderdale.
Hispanic Unity of Florida (HUF) participated in the study and shared with the researchers our own insights into the work we do assisting immigrants who are both unemployed as well as, underemployed.
How many of us know that Broward County’s percentage of foreign-born residents is nearly 33% – or 3 out every 10 residents?
The implications are significant for our community. Our immigrant population is mostly first generation. And the needs of this population are different then communities where the immigrants are second or third generation or where the immigrants are English literate and highly educated.
Local communities with large foreign born residents must invest in foundational resources to assist these immigrants in their integration – which in turn – benefits the whole community.
At HUF where we serve immigrants from 30 different nations, our work is focused on English language instruction, education (for both parents and children), economic development (employment, small business creation, asset building, health and child care supports) and civic engagement.
This from the research report: This diversity within the immigrant workforce—with high numbers at both ends of the educational spectrum—is important context for our focus in this report on opportunities for immigrants employed in lower- and middle-skilled jobs.
At HUF, we simultaneously work with former professionals such as doctors, dentists, lawyers, etc. as well as individuals who never completed high school. This diversity within the immigrant community requires different approaches to the work community organizations such as HUF undertakes. For us, it means providing core services that are fundamental to all clients while providing “add-ons” such as information on how to have educational credentials certified for immigrants with college or advanced degrees.
“One out of every six workers in the US are immigrants.” The research report’s conclusions offers guidance for all our community’s stakeholders: state and local policy makers, workforce development service providers, funders and employers. Woven throughout the report are the community based organizations that are often at the frontlines of the work with immigrants.
South Florida is at full employment. Now is the time to support and address the needs of our whole community including communities of color and the immigrant community.
This article was originally published on June 6, 2018 on the UnidosUS website.
As of this posting, Florida is the only state in the nation to not have a federally approved accountability plan.
On April 20, 2018, the Florida Department of Education (FDOE) submitted its revised Florida Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) Plan to the U.S. Department of Education (USDOE).
Hispanic Unity of Florida is a member of a coalition of civil rights organizations that earlier this year during Florida’s Legislative Session, proposed legislation that would align Florida’s school accountability system with the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), the largest federal law governing K-12 education. Florida’s current system neglects to factor into its school grades the test scores of many English learner (EL) and Latino students, and fails to use a native language assessment when appropriate for the 10% of Florida’s K-12 students who are learning English.
Effective implementation of ESSA at the state and district level is key to ensuring that educators and ELs have the data and tools they need to become English proficient and academically successful as swiftly as possible.
Under ESSA, in exchange for federal funds, states must track and report the performance of subgroups of students—racial and ethnic minorities, those from low-income families, ELs, and those with disabilities—when assessing school performance.
Florida’s revised ESSA plan, however, sidesteps the intent of the federal law by bundling together the lowest-performing students regardless of subgroup. That means schools that are not meeting the needs of every subgroup can still get a passing grade, and parents are not aware.
The revised Florida plan creates the new “Federal Percent of Points Earned Index” (FPPEI) of which subgroup performance and an English Language Proficiency Indicator will be components. The fact that Florida created the FPPEI is a good sign that the state recognizes its obligation to align the state’s system with federal law. The FPPEI, a new section of a Florida school’s report card, in effect creates a parallel accountability system. The calculation of a school’s grade still does not take into account subgroup performance and English language proficiency. This decision is problematic, confusing and unnecessary.
What’s more, while the federal government urges states, when appropriate, to test students in their native language to better assess what they know—Florida chose not to meet this requirement, despite being home to one of the nation’s largest EL population.
A recent report by UnidosUS (formerly NCLR) study highlights that Florida educates the third-largest K–12 EL population in the nation. ELs make up 10% of Florida’s student population; nearly 290,000 students. The majority of ELs—75%—in the state speak Spanish. According to recent Florida state assessment results, double-digit gaps exist in graduation rates and academic achievement between ELs and their non–EL peers.
As a result of the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, it is estimated that Florida is now home to between 10,000 to 12,000 Puerto Rican students. While these students are American citizens, they also are predominately ELs.
For more information about ESSA and education issues impacting the Latino community, visit unidosus.org and UnidosUS’s education-focused website, Progress Report: Ensuring the Success of All Students.
Have conversations about ESSA with parents, teachers, principals, superintendents, candidates and state elected officials. Bring up the “Advocate Questions” in the conversation.
Engage parents and other stakeholders in your area by hosting an ESSA meeting at your school or a community-based organization.
Follow and Vote: Follow what local and statewide candidates have to say about education. Vote for candidates in the Primary Election on August 28, 2018, and the General Election, November 6, 2018 who are committed to all K-12 students. As voters we can and must make education a top campaign issue this election cycle!
Learn more: LULAC Florida will host an Organizational Roundtable and Community Forum on June 15, 2018 in Miami, at the Dadeland Marriott at 5:30 p.m.
To learn more about why activists are urging Secretary DeVos to reject Florida’s ESSA Plan, read this Education Week article.
The Pathways to Citizenship program offers free weekly citizenship classes, assistance with the naturalization interview and application, and financial coaching. Classes are open at eight library locations: Little Havana, North Miami Beach, Homestead, Kendall, Miami, Aventura, Sunny Isles and Hialeah. For general information or registration, please visit: http://www.HUFcitizen.org or contact: (305) 562-1796.
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) data shows that more than 88,000 people obtained legal permanent resident (LPR) status in South Florida in 2016. That makes our region, the third highest ranking in the country for people obtaining LPR status, following New York City and Los Angeles.
In the last decade, HUF has empowered more than 12,000 aspiring citizens from more than 30 countries to achieve their goal of U.S. citizenship. In 2017, more than 5,000 eligible students attended classes at HUF and at partnering Broward and Miami-Dade libraries, and more than 30 trained volunteers contributed more than 2,300 hours as instructors last year.
The Pathways to Citizenship program led by the Office of New Americans (ONA) of Miami-Dade County and Hispanic Unity of Florida, Inc. is a county-wide initiative made possible with the support from our Corporate Founding Partner Citi Community Development and the generosity of the JPMorgan Chase Foundation. Partners in Miami-Dade County include: Miami-Dade Public Library System and the City of North Miami Beach and their North Miami Beach Library. Media partners include Univision 23, UniMas 69, Amor 107.5, Mix 98.3, WQBA and Radio Mambi.
The Citi Foundation today announced that Hispanic Unity of Florida (HUF) was selected as the recipient of a $500,000 grant as part of the 2018 Community Progress Makers Fund.
The Fund is a $20 million, two-year initiative by the Citi Foundation to support high-impact community organizations that are driving economic opportunities in our communities, by bringing together residents, nonprofits, businesses, and municipal agencies.
HUF joins a group of 40 change agents (five in south Florida) that are playing a key role in coordinating the efforts of multiple partners toward common goals and working in new ways to address urban challenges in Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami/South Florida, New York City, San Francisco Bay Area, and Washington D.C.
Through the fund, HUF will have the opportunity to offer low- and moderate-income families with access to customized vocational training programs, credentials and career pathways for middle-skill jobs in high demand.
by commenting on this blog and on our Facebook post.
We are pleased to announce our new Board officers, as well as the full slate of Board members for 2018.
Charles Tatelbaum, a Director with the Ft. Lauderdale law firm of Tripp Scott, P.A., has been elected to serve as Chair of the HUF Board of Directors. Mr. Tatelbaum has been a Board member and officer for the past five years and served as the Chair of the HUF Development Committee. He succeeds Guillermo Gomez (Woodforest National Bank) who served as the Board Chair in 2017. Rounding out the Executive Committee, are the following elected officers: Lucia Rodriguez (Comcast) as Chair-Elect; Emma Pfister (Templeton & Company) as Treasurer, and Christina Paradowski (Tripp Scott, P.A) as Secretary. Guillermo Gomez will continue to serve as an officer as Past-Chair.
Mr. Tatelbaum expressed his pleasure and excitement in embarking on this opportunity to lead the Board of an organization that provides so many vital and needed services to the South Florida community. He stated that with the unique diversity of the South Florida community, he welcomes the opportunity to chair HUF’s Board of Directors so that he can be part of augmenting the services provided to the community by HUF.
In addition to his more than 50 years of practice as an attorney focusing on bankruptcy and creditors’ rights issues, complex business litigation, Uniform Commercial Code transactions and lender liability litigation, Mr. Tatelbaum has been active in the South Florida community. He has served as a member (and Chair) of the Board of Friends of WLRN, a volunteer for Broward Partnership for the Homeless, as well as serving on the Board of the Florida Center for Investigative Reporting.
Lucia Rodriguez (Chair-Elect) is Sr. Director of Sales and Marketing Communications at Comcast. She has more than 20 years of experience in the Television/ Telecommunications industry, with a proven-track record in Multicultural Marketing and Management. Educated in Venezuela and the United States, she holds a degree in Advertising and Public Relations from Universidad Catolica Andres Bello, and a Master’s degree in Broadcast Administration from Boston University.
Emma Pfister (Treasurer) is a Partner in Templeton & Company LLP’s Tax Services Division. She has more than 30 years of experience in providing tax services, planning and consulting. She is based in the firms’ Fort Lauderdale office. A longtime resident of Broward County, she is active on the Board of the Friends for Jack & Jill Children’s Center in Fort Lauderdale and has been active in the St. Anthony Parish School in Fort Lauderdale serving in past leadership positions.
Christina V. Paradowski (Secretary) is an attorney with Tripp Scott, P.A., and focuses her practice in the areas of creditors’ rights, commercial litigation, and general civil litigation. In addition to her service on HUF’s Board, she is also a member of the current Leadership Broward class (Class XXXVI), a graduate of Women Leading Broward (Class IV), and the Immediate Past President of the Broward County Gator Club (an official affiliate of the University of Florida Alumni Association).
Willy Gomez (Past-Chair) has served on the Board of Hispanic Unity for three years and will remain on the Executive Board. Mr. Gomez is Florida’s Regional President for Commercial Banking at Woodforest National Bank. He is a graduate of the University of Miami. Previously, he served nine years on the Board of the Make a Wish Foundation of Southern Florida with one year as Chairman of the Board, and served on the Board of the Miami Science Museum for 12 years.
HUF is proud to welcome six new members to the Board of Directors: Dr. Rolando Garcia (Broward College), Daniel Herz (DFH Business Consultants Inc.), Daphne Maingot (Crowe Horwath LLP), Angie Stone (Citrix), Daniel Schevis (Community Volunteer) and Carolina Cardozo, Esq. (attorney). Continuing in their roles as members of the Board are: Melida Akiti (Memorial Healthcare System), John Guerrero (JM Family Enterprises, Inc.), Hector Lima (Citrix), Al Quintana (Edward Jones Investments), and Steve Sampier (Community Volunteer). Catalina Avalos serves as HUF’s non-voting and pro bono legal counsel.
To learn more about HUF’s volunteer leadership on the board and on its committees, contact Felina Furer at 954-862-7693 to schedule a private tour.
Join us today in congratulating our 2018 Board in our Facebook page.

If you have need for a hostess for your upcoming event click here for more info as part of the package we off free promotion of your event before, during and after on our website and our social media accounts.
Our grid girl Lara was at Oulton Park British GT on Bank Holiday Monday 22nd April 2019 working with Orbital Food Machinery sponsored JRM Racing Bentley.
Our ring girl Jess was working the Muay Thai Promotions ‘Shins of Steele 5’show at Kings Hall, Stoke on Trent on Saturday 20th April 2019.

Weekend fun isn’t just for humans. Dogs love to get out and enjoy some time away from the day-to-day grind. But where can you take your dogs on weekends?
#3: Farmers Markets – Orlando boasts many dog friendly farmers markets every weekend. From Windermere’s Friday Farmers Market to the big Saturday markets in Winter Garden and Winter Park – you are hard pressed to find a locale without a marketplace of fresh produce. Dogs at these events have become so prominent that many vendors now cater exclusively to dogs selling homemade biscuits and treats just for your pooch.
#2: The beach – Contrary to popular belief there ARE several dog friendly beaches within a short drive of Orlando. The closest is the Smyrna Dunes Park. Dogs can romp and play in the sun alongside your family.
Be sure to take poop bags and keep the beach as nice as you found it!
#1: The dog park – What better place to spend some time outdoors and close to home than in the dog park. Central Florida can boast one of the nations best dog friendly parks in Winter Park. Fleet Peeples Park alongside the shores of Lake Baldwin has to be the nicest, most popular and respected dog parks around. It’s huge trees supply lots of shade and dogs love to run in the surf of the lakes sandy shores. There’s even a bathing area for our dog once they’ve had enough fun in the sun.
Well, there you have it. The things pet sitters in Orlando like to do with their dogs. Did we miss any? Tell us in the comments.

John Mulaney’s latest stand-up special, Kid Gorgeous at Radio City, came out on Netflix in the spring, and it remains one of the year’s best. (It also just picked up an Emmy for Outstanding Writing for a Variety Special.) On September 28, it’ll be released on vinyl courtesy of Drag City, which means you can now put it on your turntable and listen to Mulaney yelling about street smarts and that time Mick Jagger told him he wasn’t funny. Since he’s responsible for some of the most outstanding comedy records of the last decade, Pitchfork asked Mulaney to talk about his five favorite comedy LPs.

Donate to Stanmore Public School's Building Fund before June 30 and claim a deduction when submitting your tax return for this financial year.
Our Building Fund is a great opportunity to actively participate in the growth of your children’s school. The Building Fund operates on a non-profit basis and is a Deductible Gift Recipient (DGR) as defined by the ATO. Therefore any donation over $2.00 to the building fund is tax deductible.
The use of the school building fund is solely for providing money to acquire, construct or maintain the school buildings for the purposes of using that building as a school. An example of this would be the funding of the Kitchen for the SAKG program. A school building fund cannot provide funds for a non-school building, the non-school use of a school building or other facilities that are not buildings.
Note: This information does not constitute financial advice. If you have any questions about the tax benefits you should seek your own independent advice.
Please provide your personal details for the tax receipt.
Please fill in your city or suburb.
Note: A PayPal transaction fee of 2.6% + $0.30 is added to each donation to cover our costs.
Card transactions are processed securely via PayPal.
No PayPal account is required. Just select "Pay with Debit or Credit Card" on the PayPal page.

Normally, in an everyday car kind of way, so long as it’s shiny, a nice colour and isn’t going to break down, usually I’m fairly easy going. Jules (who takes care of our brides and grooms) on the other hand has been very focussed on cars this last week and definitely knows what she likes. She’s also got an uncanny knack of remembering every number plate that she comes across. It’s that attention to detail that is mind boggling!
Just occasionally though even I can really understand the excitement about a having a gorgeous car. I’d be lying if I said there wasn’t the teeniest bit of excitement when the gold wrapped Bentley of one of our clients drove up to the studio last year. We really weren’t all sneakily admiring it parked on the driveway, honest!
I love the fun factor in a car that shows your personality. I really get this as my own first car was a fiat 126 and was diddy, in fact I had two at one point a blue and a red which I used to joke that I chose between depending on my outfit that day. One of our couples had a fiat 500 as their wedding car last year. How awesome is that!
Some couples choose a car because of the sentiment attached to it. At our last wedding of 2016 on New Years Eve, the wedding car had huge sentimental value to the bride and her family and was justifiably an important part of the day. At my own nieces wedding she had a VW camper-van, which are perfect for a vintage wedding, but I knew that was also a special choice for my sister and her hubby who both loved VW campers.
So, who knew a car could be so important!!! But which to choose, well we’ve had the pleasure of photographing some amazing cars over the years. Not least some of those belonging to Chris Evans, who brought them to our neck of the woods at Cliveden House Hotel for Children in Need. Here are his pics and todays gallery is a selection of wedding cars to give you inspiration, go have a browse!

If nicknames were rooted in a very player’s romance along with his organization, Victor ‘Found Money’ Mete would be rolling off tongues throughout Montreal.6 weeks ago, an enormous swath from the Canadiens enthusiast base had, at very best, a vague notion of who Mete was. And in some cases people with intimate knowledge of his skills including a sociates on the entrance busine s, most likely experienced no inclining he was the answer for the i sue, Hey, who the heck is gonna https://www.stylepanthers.com/ fill that Andrei Markov-sized hole within the left side from the 1st pair close to Shea Weber? Mete, drafted a hundredth overall in 2016, has absent from intriguing to indispensable for Montreal during the span of 7 online games, a lively vibrant place within an if not dreadful begin for that Habs. That is why, regardle s that he’s one particular of a couple of dozen entry-level slide candidates inside the league, there is practically no po sibility he’s returned by Montreal to your London Henrik Borgstrom Jersey Knights from the OHL.For a speedy refresher and when you want to go deeper and also a bit cro s-eyed, down load the CBA and dive into portion 9.one most young people that have however to engage in ten NHL games is often re-a signed to your reduced league without getting one on the a few several years on their own entry-level deal burned. Just one exception is Clayton Keller of the Arizona Coyotes. Keller didn’t sign his deal until finally his age 19 season and, acquiring now slid 1 season when he performed 3 game titles last year, Keller is over the clock despite in which he plays that will be from Roberto Luongo Jersey the NHL for your up coming fifteen many years.
Cette entrée a été publiée dans Non classé, et marquée avec a lively vibrant place within an if not dreadful begin for that Habs. That is why, a vague notion of who Mete was. And in some cases people with intimate knowledge of his skills including a sociates on the entrance busine s, acquiring now slid 1 season when he performed 3 game titles last year, an enormous swath from the Canadiens enthusiast base had, at very best, down load the CBA and dive into portion 9.one most young people that have however to engage in ten NHL games is often re-a signed to your reduced league without getting one on the a few several years , drafted a hundredth overall in 2016, has absent from intriguing to indispensable for Montreal during the span of 7 online games, Hey, If nicknames were rooted in a very player's romance along with his organization, Keller is over the clock despite in which he plays that will be from Roberto Luongo Jersey the NHL for your up coming fifteen many years., most likely experienced no inclining he was the answer for the i sue, regardle s that he's one particular of a couple of dozen entry-level slide candidates inside the league, Remaining up or likely down: Entry-level contracts approaching 9 online games, there is practically no po sibility he's returned by Montreal to your London Henrik Borgstrom Jersey Knights from the OHL.For a speedy refresher and when you want to go deeper and also a bit cro s-eye, Victor 'Found Money' Mete would be rolling off tongues throughout Montreal.6 weeks ago, who the heck is gonna https://www.stylepanthers.com/ fill that Andrei Markov-sized hole within the left side from the 1st pair close to Shea Weber? Mete, le 2 janvier 2019 par Audrey Malacain.

(HOST) As the season for summer blockbuster movies about super heroes and rings of power approaches, commentator Willem Lange is feeling nostalgic for other mighty champions of yesteryear.
early western United States. Nowhere in the pages of history can one find a greater champion of justice. Return with us now to those thrilling days of yesteryear. From out of the past come the thundering hoof beats of the great horse Silver! The Lone Ranger rides again!"
How many times I must have heard those lines, and how impressive they must have been, to be remembered 70 years later?
means stupid in Spanish? What did kemo sabe mean? – boss, or pal, or champion of justice, or paleface idiot?
When I was little, there was no radio in our house; our parents were deaf. Our grandparents had a big table-model Philco in their parlor. Just as kids nowadays tease for an iPhone, I kept asking for a radio until I got it. A tiny, dark-brown Bakelite-cased Arvin, it sat on the sideboard in our dining room.
Every weekday, from 4:45 till 6:00 in the afternoon, I pulled my long-legged chair up to the sideboard, turned on the radio, and gazed at the dial. Many of you must remember "watching the radio" and memorizing the numbers of the AM dial, from 520 to 1610 kilohertz. I could tell from the glances I got from my parents as I sat there – sitting still for longer than at any other time in my life – that they suspected I was listening to something inappropriate and possibly sinful.
At 4:45 a voice crackled over a simulated radio transmission: "CX4 to control tower. CX4 to control tower. Standing by…" The answer was immediate: "Control tower to CX4. Wind southeast, ceiling 1200. All clear."
"This is Hop Harrigan, coming in!" So it went: five 15-minute episodes, featuring Jack Armstrong, Captain Midnight; Terry and the Pirates, and finally Tom Mix.
Evenings, there were half-hour shows – The Green Hornet; The Shadow, in real life Lamont Cranston, "wealthy young man-about-town" who once in the Orient had learned to "cloud men’s minds so they cannot see him."
Everything we imagined was the product of our separate minds’ eyes. When the Lone Ranger walked across the board platform of a railroad station, each of us constructed a different scene. It was like the famous "driveway moments" on Public Radio; you could do nothing else demanding thought while you were into an on-air drama. Listening to archived recordings now reveals it to have been pretty simplistic drivel. Still, wasn’t it glorious!
(TAG) You can find more commentaries by Willem Lange at VPR-dot-net.

Standard dialogue tags are said and asked. The mind skips over them, so they are invisible.
"It is hotly debated whether you should ever use colorful or adverb tags," she muttered. "Some editors don't mind a few creative tags."
"Some may allow adverb tags," she said skeptically. "Adverb tags are generally frowned upon."
" Break this rule at your own peril," she said mischievously.
Your dialogue should look like one of these examples. Note the correct formatting. Commas, periods, and question marks should fall within the quotation marks.
A comma separates the dialogue from the standard tag. A period separates the dialogue from an action tag.
The same formatting for the standard tag applies to a creative tag or action tags.
Standard tag in the front: Sherlock said, "I see."
Standard tag in the middle: "I see," Sherlock said. "I have been misinformed."
Standard tag at the end: "I see," Sherlock said. (or) "I see," said Sherlock.
Action tag in the front: Sherlock cleared his throat. "I see."
Action tag in the middle: "I see." Sherlock cleared his throat. "I was misinformed."
Action tag at the end: "I see." Sherlock cleared his throat.
Action combined with a standard tag: Sherlock pointed to the clock and said, "I must be off."
For more tips on how to make your dialogue work for you, check out our previous posts.
Dialogue, just the way we talk?
This is a great topic, Diana, one that trips up a lot of writers. It reminds me of some manuscripts I've edited where a page is filled with short exchanges between two characters, and the writer identifies each bit of conversation with "he said" or "she said". Overuse of dialogue tags--whether standard or action--diminishes the power of a scene, while proper use enhances it. All writers need to remember that.
Great reminders that "said" and "asked" are invisible to the reader. The only other one I like to use (sparingly) is "whispered."
Good post. I don't like adverb tags, either. The content of your writing should tell you if your are acting mischievously or skeptically. You see these tags a lot in older books.
I don't mind the occasional adverb tag, as long as it's not over used. Great post.
On a long trip, I listened to a bestselling author's book, filled with adverb tags. Hearing them throughout was more than annoying. For that reason, I never use them. If you adhere to Elmore Leonard's rules, you'd never use them at all. I disagree. Adverbs have their place, just not as a dialogue tag. My rule is whatever works for the sentence is what I do. Bah humbug on the rules.
Adverb tags are most 'famous' as Tom Swifties.

​We use a professional quality dual diesel/gasoline engine system that generates hot water, which allows us to use the ultra cleaning power of steam. This enables us to achieve a level of clean not possible with regular equipment. We employ surface cleaners to remove the grime from ground level and multiple pressure nozzles to wipe the dirt away from everything else. Here are some photos and videos that show our service in action and the results that our customers enjoy.
We also clean windows to a sparkling shine using squeegee for a streak-free finish. This will make your home or business look brand new.
​We only employ gentle chemicals for stubborn spots that are environmentally friendly. Due to the steam power we employ, chemicals are largely unnecessary.

The full fixture list for the next few days in the Allied Counties Youth League has been posted and there are a couple of decent local ties to look out for.
Bracknell Town and Windsor meet on Monday night in the Central Division with both sides in 6th and 7th on 18 points after 10 and 11 games respectively.
The winners will go top of the table, at least until Wednesday when Ascot United are in action while Hanworth Villa, Flackwell Heath and Binfield play on Thursday.
The league have also released the leading scorers up to 29th November with Alexander Lacy (Bracknell Town) fourth in the Central Division with 11 while Josh Harris (pictured) and Toby Illingworth (both Binfield) have seven each.
Here’s the full list of fixtures for the week ahead. All the latest league tables are here.

The anti-alcohol folks are pushing for stronger and mandatory warnings on drinks about the dangers of alcohol consumption during pregnancy.
Baddock argues attempts by the alcohol industry to promote measures to reduce FASD have been ineffective and rather seek to debate the evidence.
The NZMA submission urges decision-makers to be aware of, and pre-empt, industry counter-arguments to public health measures such as mandatory labelling.
Baddock says a standard alcohol industry tactic has been to cite lack of evidence as a reason not to do something, which has been used by others such as the tobacco industry to "thwart and delay" public health measures like plain packaging.
"It's not just alcohol. I think any industry tends to be resistant to anything mandatory that might affect their sales."
However, she is hopeful the alcohol industry will "come on board" with mandatory pregnancy warnings.
"I would love to see the alcohol industry put up their hand and say FASD is a real problem and we need to be helping reduce the harms done [by alcohol]."
Traditionally, the status quo has some weight. Those proposing changes to the status quo have to provide some evidence that the change will be beneficial - that the gains will exceed the costs. In areas where evidence on gains and harms is hard to come by, we can look to international evidence - or run trials.
It is a bit odd to pre-emptively say (my paraphrase): "Hey, we don't have any evidence that our policy proposal will do any good. We ran some focus groups suggesting that people don't pay much notice to current labels, but we have no particularly good reason to expect that mandatory labeling will change real-world behaviour in the cohort we should be worried about. But anybody pointing out the absence of evidence - we're going to pre-emptively say that they're industry shills."
Another fun bit - the anti-alcohol people worry that messages like 'it's safest not to drink while pregnant' might strengthen beliefs that light drinking in pregnancy is harmless.
Here's Emily Oster on that. She included a nice section on alcohol in her review of all of the evidence on the dos and don'ts during pregnancy.
There exists no large (or even small) randomized trial about drinking during pregnancy; such a thing is never likely to exist. This is not unique to drinking, of course – there are no large randomized trials of Tylenol usage in pregnancy, either, just a lot of large observational studies. And some women will read the existing evidence and still choose to abstain. But there is a growing body of data suggesting that, if women choose to have a glass of wine, there is no evidence they are harming their baby.
Telling women that an occasional glass of wine is more harmful to their baby than heroin or cocaine is misleading and may also be potentially dangerous. It surely would not be supported by the vast majority of the medical establishment. Focusing on punishing and shaming women who choose to have an occasional glass of wine during their pregnancy also takes away important focus from helping women who are struggling with truly problematic drinking and the social problems that often come with it.
So they're worried that people might draw the correct conclusion from the labeling - that heavy drinking during pregnancy is a very very bad idea, but a glass of wine every other day is going to be fine.
Again - the anti-alcohol people will not be happy until they have incrementally gotten us to alcohol plain packaging. It's salami-slice tactics, exactly the same as used in the push against tobacco, incrementally piling on restrictions until the only thing allowed on the packaging is warning labels and small-print indication of the manufacturer.

There are so many ways to work on handwriting without actually using a pencil. You probably know the face your child makes when you suggest a little handwriting practice. It's a cross between "NO!" and "Why???!!!" Anyone who has worked with a child who struggles with handwriting knows this face. But, what if I told you there were ways to work on the skills needed for handwriting and pencil grasp that don't actually require a pencil?
It's true! Kids can strengthen the fine motor skills and bimanual skills needed for handwriting legibility and written work through activities that develop skills such as fine motor strength, precision, bilateral coordination, eye-hand coordination, and even posture and core stability.
Want to get a printable handout that contains creative activities to develop these skills? It's a free offer this week only from the Functional Skills for Kids therapy team. You can grab the free three page handout here and pass it on to therapists, teachers, and parents who are looking for fresh ideas to improve handwriting in fun ways.
Grab your copy of Motor Activities to Improve Handwriting HERE.
These are just a FEW ideas that you can try to work on handwriting and pencil grasp skills.
Print off the printable handout for a checklist-type list of activities that can be used as a home program for therapists. School-based OTs will love to add these checklists to their toolbox of resources that can be shared with teachers and parents. It's a great explanation sheet for helping parents and teachers understand the underlying skill areas that go into handwriting and pencil grasp.
This printable handout is a tool you need in your therapy binder to copy and share again and again!
What are your favorite ways to work on the skills needed for written work and pencil grasp? Share them in our private handwriting Facebook group, Sweet Ideas for Handwriting Help.

Sean performed a magic/disco show at my 6 year old's birthday party. The kids had a wonderful time and his magic show kept their attention throughout. A number of parents commented that it was the best they had seen.
I would just like to thank you very much for your Magic and Mayhem show you put on at Lewis's 6th birthday party. Your show was excellent and well worth it. I thought you managed the 30+ kids extremely well and they all went home with big smiles on their faces, especially Lewis. You never stopped for the full 2 hours (and bit more) your manner and way with the kids was well received. I will definitely recommend you to anybody who asks.
Thanks again for a terrific show on Saturday. I have had lots of comments about how good you were, and I hope it generates more business for you. The kids had a whale of a time, and I think the grown-ups enjoyed themselves too! Thanks a lot.
Just a quick note to say thanks for the fantastic show you did for Chloe today. Chloe and everyone else really enjoyed it. Thanks again.
Sean is absolutely amazing. So funny, the kids love him! He made my boys birthday party amazing! I literally can't fault this company at all! The pair of them are flawless. They spoke to me about the party and all it will include, it ran so smoothly, effortlessly and my son and all his friends loved it! Even the adults were enjoying the show. Normally at parties the adults are bored waiting for the party to be over so they can get home but that certainly wasn't the case this time! I've definitely found an entertainer that I love in this company!! Definitely will be booking these again next year!! Cannot recommend enough!!
To see a selection of reviews just click on the speech bubbles. For a more comprehensive list of reviews see our facebook page MOBILE MAYHEM PARTIES.

At 72 years old, Robert Palov described himself as a busy man on the go. Juggling time between a marketing job and golf courts, he took good care of his health to maintain his busy lifestyle. But in May 2015, Palov experienced two weeks of chest pains. Following a visit with a cardiologist at the Lakeshore Hospital he knew his lifestyle was about to change.
The angiogram was very clear: Palov had extensive blockage in his arteries (85 to 90 per cent) and needed to undergo surgery as soon as possible.
It was Dr. Patrick Ergina, cardiac surgeon at the RVH-MUHC, who treated Palov. “Mr. Palov came to the MUHC because he needed an Aortic valve replacement and coronary bypass surgery,” he explains.
Dr. Ergina’s mission was to help restore the blood flow to Palov’s heart by replacing the blocked aortic valve with a new prosthetic valve and by bypassing the blocked coronary arteries with vessels that were taken from his legs.
Raji Cambow was one of Palov’s physiotherapists during his stay at the MUHC. As part of the unit’s multidisciplinary team, Cambow’s main role consists of helping patients gain back their mobility after a cardiac surgery.
In fact, this first experience at the newly located Royal Victoria Hospital left nothing but good impressions on Palov who made sure to send a letter of appreciation to the MUHC upon his discharge from the hospital.
Front row: Veronique Tardif, Dr. Patrick Ergina; back row: Linda Lowe, Susan Lloy, Raj Cambow, Donna Patterson, Maryam Ahli Eraghi, Myriam Julien, Christine Lefebvre.

F1600 Formula F Championship Series alum Aaron Telitz claimed two victories for the Team USA Scholarship and Cliff Dempsey Racing at this weekend’s 43rd annual Formula Ford Festival at Brands Hatch, but fell short of the ultimate prize when he spun into the gravel trap while challenging for the lead in the Final.
Teammate Michai Stephens, 22, from Evanston, Ill., once again was struck by misfortune in his Semi Final race this morning and was unable to qualify for the Final. Stephens had driven impressively to work his way from 25th on the grid to 12th, only to be forced off the road when veteran driver Rick Morris made a rare mistake while Stephens was in the process of passing him around the outside at Clearways.
Telitz, 22, from Birchwood, Wis., put on another clinic during his Semi Final round. He made an exemplary start from the pole and led all 15 laps to ensure a place on the front row of the grid for the 20-lap Grand Final. He had to be content with the outside position, due to the fact his Semi Final had been interrupted by two Safety Car periods which ensured a slower average speed than Semi Final 2. Undeterred, Telitz made a good start and immediately began to pressurize race leader Jonny McMullan.
On Lap 4, Telitz carried more momentum onto the Brabham Straight and drafted to the left of McMullan on the undulating approach to the first corner, Paddock Hill Bend. The pair ran side-by-side toward the apex of the turn, whereupon Telitz’s car just got away from him and he performed a lazy spin into the gravel trap, from which there was no escape.
Telitz and Stephens will now regroup and return to action on Thursday at Silverstone for two more days of testing prior to next weekend’s Walter Hayes Trophy event for which over 100 Formula Ford cars are currently entered.

Jimmy Choo’s fall ’17 men’s collection, shown today during Milan Fashion Week, focused on the idea of clashing. It aimed to combine unexpected materials and fuse categories together, such as using dressy finishes on more casual styles.
In addition to introducing new hybrid shoes — like a velvet slip-on sneaker that resembled a smoking slipper — the new offering made sure to tick all the right shoe trends, too, using shearlings and corduroys as well as introducing sock-fit sneakers.
Jimmy Choo fall ’17 collection.
Compared to its previous seasons, the collection here felt much more cohesive overall. Though it cast a wide net in terms of treatments and styles, the brand made attempts to continue them across all of the footwear categories.
For more fall shoes, click through the gallery.

What’s the weather in Faschina - Fontanella today? See an overview of the current Faschina - Fontanella weather, including high and low temperatures for the day and wind mph at the base and summit of the mountain. Scroll to the right to see Faschina - Fontanella weather forecasts and wind for the next seven days. Tab over to Hour by Hour for an hourly Faschina - Fontanella weather forecast breakdown or to Long Range Weather Forecast for a detailed Faschina - Fontanella weather forecast for the next seven days.

A brand’s reputation is in the hands of its clients. With the virtual platforms slowly taking over, it is important for every business to gain the trust of customers.
At Digital Hub Solution, we work towards offering the best brand reputation management services. We understand that there’s intense competition and thus we work hard to build a favorable image of your company.
Why Select Digital Hub Solution for Brand Reputation Management?
Our team of ORM managers keeps a check on the number of visitors that your website is receiving. Other than that, we also monitor the reviews received across all online channels. We use certain tools that make all of this easier and quicker.
The market is constantly changing along with the customers’ demands and needs. So, it is necessary to maintain a solid brand reputation. Updating your website with the on-going trends keeps the customers engaged and helps gain their trust.
Being a Digital Marketing firm, we know the value of Search Engine Optimization. So, we monitor the content published on social media platforms. We always want to ensure that relevant keywords are placed in any kind of posted content.
At Digital Hub Solution we never take customers for granted. So, we keep a check on every little response that your brand receives on social media channels. Whether it is a comment or a tweet, we ensure that the customer always receives a reply.
Want to improve your brand’s reputation? Connect with Digital Hub Solution. Our brand reputation management strategies will definitely help you make a difference.

Tom Coolen has coached a lot of teams in his 58 years.
His career has spanned seven countries and 25 years. He’s spent thousands of hours in rinks with teenagers in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League, to grizzled pros in Europe.
And he knows how to win.
During the 1992-93 season, he led the Acadia University men’s hockey team to the Canadian Interuniversity Sport national championship at the storied Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto.
But nothing compared to what he felt on Feb. 26 of this year.
On that day, Coolen helped lead the St. Thomas University men’s volleyball team to the Atlantic Colleges Athletic Association championship as co-coach.
STU was the underdog in the match against Holland College, as a team made up of mostly first-year players taking on the top-ranked team.
The team moved on to the Canadian Colleges Athletic Association national championships. They finished last in the tournament of eight teams last weekend, outmatched against squads from Ontario and Quebec.
But for a team that sat out last season due to a hazing suspension and had to rebuild from scratch, an ACAA championship was more than what anyone could have expected.
“With the team being [suspended], I looked at it that we were a new team and this was a fresh start. It was a new beginning to the program.
It was that attitude, along with his winning reputation, that brought a professional hockey coach to STU to co-coach a rookie team of volleyball players.
Coolen grew up in Halifax and played baseball in the Canada Games. After that, he went on to an Atlantic University Sport football career.
But hockey is the sport that has taken up much of his life.
With a desire to keep playing in some form, Coolen started his hockey coaching career as an assistant coach with the University of New Brunswick men’s hockey team, then called the Red Devils, in 1982-83.
Coaching took him all over the world, from the U.S. college circuit to Switzerland and Germany.
But his credentials go beyond the rink.
With master’s degrees in athletic coaching and counselling, Coolen is one of only two people in the province certified by the Canadian Sports Psychology Association.
He now splits his time scouting major junior games for NHL Central Scouting and teaching at a school in Doaktown, N.B.
Last fall, he met with STU athletics director Mike Eagles to talk about rebuilding the men’s volleyball program. Eagles was interested in seeing if Coolen’s son, Patrick, would play for STU.
He also wanted to see if Coolen would guide the team with rookie co-coach Francis Duguay.
“He felt I had a lot of success as a university coach. I think he felt that would be a good place to start.
“I was familiar with the volleyball, that age level of kids entering university because I had been involved with the under-18 team [as] general manager.
They decided Duguay would handle the on-court coaching and run practices, while Coolen would handle the administrative side and provide general guidance on things like how to handle players.
As the season wore on, Coolen helped focus and motivate the young team.
At Christmas, the team added Coolen’s son, Patrick, and veteran Andrew Keddy to the team. The libero and setter would be important keys to winning the championship, logging big minutes during the ACAA weekend.
In addition to having talent, Coolen knew the key to the team’s success would be taking the program seriously.
The week before the championship weekend, Coolen used his sports psychology training to help the team get ready physically and mentally for the challenge ahead of them, starting with practicing at 100 per cent every day. He believes you play how you practice.
Much of the roster can play at least another three years at STU if they want to, but Coolen isn’t sure he’ll be there to guide them next season.
“I came in to establish it and get it started.

Chief Servant Adama Barrow just concluded his two-week long meet the people’s tour where he made several promises. Reading various media reports I got to understand that these promises form part of 42 projects that are identified under his National Development Plan.
Since the days of Jawara and then Yaya Jammeh we have these presidential countrywide tours where numerous promises are made. In most cases these promises are not fulfilled but get repeated at every tour.
This trend has to stop. But if only citizens begin to actively identify these promises in order to track their implementation.
Citizens in each and every village, town, ward, district or region must begin to list these promises made to them so that after the tour they start the process of following up with the relevant Government institutions as well as their National Assembly Member and Local Government Chairperson, Governor and Mayor to ensure that the promises that the Chief Servant gave them are fulfilled.
This is the only way we will end the usual practice of empty promises imposed on citizens by politicians. This is the only way we will make our presidents honest and effective. This is the only way citizens will ensure that no politicians and public officers take them for a ride.
Therefore, to start that process, I have gone through various media reports to capture some of the promises made by the Chief Servant Adam Barrow and some of his ministers during the tour. I urge you to also go back to those reports to identify which promise was made to your village or town or ward or district or region. We must not let Adama Barrow treat us as how DK Jawara and Yaya Jammeh treated us.
11. To build fish processing factories and storage facilities in Tanji and Brufut that would create more than 20, 000 jobs. Work to begin 2019.
15. To make Jarra and Kiang the first to benefit from national electricity roadmap.
19. Minster of Education Claudiana Cole promised Kombo North a new and accessible senior secondary school for the district if the people can provide land.
26. A digital register that would register all pregnant women in the country to enable health workers to monitor, respond and send alerts to them.
What was promised to your village or town or region? Find out and start tracking the fulfilment of the promises. Promises, when made, are to be kept and not broken!
CSOs and NAMs and other stakeholder must also follow up on these promises. Let us help Barrow fulfil his promises!
Adamas’ track record has so far failed the apt title of “chief servant” after merely one and a half year in office. He is gradually turning into a tyrant, warning would-be protesters about severe consequences Jammeh-style, and demeaning Gambian political activists abroad (I have a problem with the term diasporans, whatever that means). Don’t shy away from the term a dictator in the making, Madi.
We are witnessing glaring similarities between Adama and the past FAILED presidents of the republic. That should be a call for more vigilance and scrutiny of all aspects and branches of an administration that is evidently taking us downhill. Nevertheless, expecting any different results from Adama and Ousainou, from that of Dawda and Yaya will be pure insanity.
Madi keep up the unflinching loyalty to your people and the truth.
I say jerre jeff, njaraama, abaaraka.

The Denver Board of Education opened the 2017-18 school year with an update on projects that include new construction, upgrades, heat mitigation and quality learning environments.
We are excited that Denver students will be the beneficiaries of a four year, $572 million General Obligation Bond. Since the passage of the bond, our construction team has worked to schedule the projects over the four-year term of the bond.
Denver voters on Tuesday approved bond and mill funding measures for students in Denver Public Schools, agreeing to invest $572 million in bond funding to build and improve schools and $56.6 million in operating dollars to support proven initiatives, such as early literacy.
Denver voters say yes to bond and mill levy funding support for DPS students and schools. Click to learn more about the details of the voter-approved bond measure.
Denver voters on Nov. 8 approved bond and mill funding measures for DPS students and schools. Learn more about what’s included in the mill levy measure.

Your Opinion Counts! Express your Divine Names preferences!
As discussed elsewhere on this website, there are a large number of variations of the Sacred Name found among various ministries. We have listed about 25 different variations below for the Name of our Heavenly Father, and about a dozen different Names for Messiah. No doubt there are others, as well. What is your preference? We have three public polls below, maintained by an independent third-party source, and there is no obligation of any kind to participate, nor will any "cookies" be placed on your computer for participating.
We would, however, ask that you first read through at least the "Introductory" pages on this website, which include many quoted statements from scholars concerning the true Divine Names of Scripture.
We welcome your comments as well, which can be easily posted to the page coming up after you click "vote" below. Note: You can also click on multiple choices when voting on the questions below, except for the final question box. In addition, you may use our online Email response form, or our online Bulletin Message Board. The Email and Message Board can be found on our "Participate" menu. Thank you for participating!
Which do you use as our Heavenly Father's Sacred Name(s)?
Yahweh Yahuah Iahoh Iao Yah Yahu Iaua Ya-huwa Ya-huva Jehovah Yhw Yaho Yahwe YHWH YHVH El Shaddai Elyon Yahuweh Lord God Almighty The Everliving Yahvah Yahwah Any Other???
Which do you use as Messiah's correct Name?
Yeshua Yahshua Y'shua Yahoshua Yehoshua Yahushua Yahuashua Yehuashua Yehushua Jesus Christ Other??? Please Advise Us!
Do you agree with the conclusions of scholars that have been presented on this website?
Help us to spread the good news on social media!

The Gubernatorial Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom State, Obong Nsima Ekere, has promised to rehabilitate victims of the violence that ravaged Ukanafun Local Government Area in the last three years when he becomes Governor on May 29, 2019.
Several lives and millions of naira worth of property have been lost in the conflict which paralyzed economic activities in the area and forced residents to flee to neighbouring Abak Local Government Area and the State Capital, Uyo.
Addressing the APC campaign rally at Ikot Akpa Nkuk, the Ukanafun Local Government Headquarters on Friday, Ekere also promised to grant proper amnesty to the repentant militants and not the fake amnesty of the present State Government.
The APC standard bearer stated that he knew what was proper amnesty, having served as the Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) for more than two years.
He proposed a sustainable empowerment programme for the repentant militants and the larger Ukanafun youths to ensure enduring peace in the area.
As the NDDC boss, Ekere said he was able to complete emergency repairs on the failed and unmotorable sections of access road to the NDDC Health Centre at Ikot Ossiom while construction work was ongoing on the Nto Nso II – Umuebueze Road, all in Ukanafun.
He promised a complete turnaround of the infrastructure of Ukanafun, which is one of the eight local government areas designated as Special Development Areas in his manifesto, when he becomes Governor.

For enquiries or viewing appointments at our showroom, feel free to contact us at +65-8657-1657 or email us at shop@thegoldenconcepts.com. Our showroom is located at 3 Ubi Avenue 3, Crocodile House (rear lobby), #05-02B, Singapore 408857 (by appointment).
Solid. But a spare rubber base at $9 is too costly.
Bought this for my Dad at the request from his OT. Excellent product especially when paired with the Sky Med Quad Cane Tip. With this the cane is able to stand on its own plus it gives extra grip to the floor too.

No Breakthrough In Tirupati Theft Case | Sri Govinda Raja Swamy Temple News No Breakthrough In Tirupati Theft Case: It is already three days but the AP cops had no updates on the theft case of three crowns in Sri Govinda Raja Swamy temple located in Tirupati.
No Breakthrough In Tirupati Theft Case:- It is already three days but the AP cops had no updates on the theft case of three crowns in Sri Govinda Raja Swamy temple located in Tirupati. The cops released the pictures of the main suspect that has been captured in the surveillance camera. The cops requested the people to suggest basing on the released pictures but they found no clues or developments in the case in these two days. The cops even said that the people's identity will be kept secret and will be rewarded. The lost crowns are said to be 1351 grams and are valued at Rs 50 lakhs that were stolen on the evening of Saturday.
Nine special teams have been appointed to crack the case. The CCTV footage of the temple and the surrounding regions has been traced thoroughly and some of the employees, priests have been questioned already. Tirupati Urban Superintendent of Police K K N Anburajan expressed his confidence on cracking this case at the earliest. Though the cops initially felt that the priests had connection with the incident, the investigation found no such traces. Sri Govinda Raja Swamy temple is one of the 10 temples which come under Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD).

How do companies innovate with big data? It starts with human-centered design thinking.
As the mom of a toddler, I spend most of my waking hours covered in a mixture of applesauce, milk, and general baby-themed liquids.
But it turns out, there are some clever ways to innovate with big data going on here. Coming from the 100-year-old clothing company L.L. Bean.
L.L. Bean has teamed up with a variety of tech companies so that they can track data on how their garments are really used on an ongoing basis. Like how often each item is worn when it’s washed, the temperature outside when worn, and more. Over the years, it will also show if an older garment is being used again, indicating a return to fashion.
Their key partner is Loomia, who makes flexible circuitry so the clothes can be fitted with sensors. Customers then have to agree to release their data to the blockchain, along with some basic information about their demographics like age, gender, and so on. The blockchain will be set up to keep this information anonymous.
Well, it will probably work like a reward card system, whereby agreeing to give your usage data to the brand, you get free shipping or discounts. We’ve seen this work many times. So, as long as the interface is really easy to use, people will happily release their data for free stuff…we like free stuff!
Right now, this data will be mainly used to innovate with big data and drive product improvements. By seeing what’s being worn, how, where and by who, L.L. Bean will be able to leverage this information into the next round of clothing they create.
They will be able to see what types of usage reduce the lifespan or quality of the product. And then, either try to add protection against this use or just create a new line for that type of customer.
So, expect L.L. Bean to have a new line of “sweaters that your dog can sleep on” and “non-wash pizza repellent shirts”. One can only dream.
However, this type of long-term data analysis is just the beginning. Smart clothing has a lot more applications than this.
If your jacket can sense the weather, then there’s no reason that it can’t react to it in some way too. And, unlike some internet of things devices, if you lose connection, it’s not going to stop working as a jacket. This can all act as a bonus feature, rather than something integral to the functioning of the garment.
Because you don’t want people getting soaked in the rain just because they lost WiFi, right?
There are many more ways to innovate with big data beyond this.
If you want to learn more about how you can leverage big data to inspire new products and services, then we’ll be diving deeper into this innovative approach in our next video.
Now, if you’ll excuse me, I just need to find the remote control for my shirt.
How Can Big Data Drive Innovation?
Today, we’re going to see how to innovate with big data, especially when it’s combined with a certain way of thinking.
Because data on its own is just a raw material. It’s like having a ton of flour – it has value, but it’s worth so much more when you turn it into a cake. Yummmmm, cake.
So, what can you bake from big data? The answer lies in the additional ingredient, design thinking.
Design thinking, born from the folks at international design firm IDEO, is a method of meeting people’s needs and desires in a technologically feasible and strategically viable way.
You start by looking at what the customer needs. Rather than SOLELY focusing on profit margins and bottom line. You don’t ignore these important factors, of course, that’s just bad business sense. But in design thinking, you start with the customer needs and build from there.
Big data, vs. survey data, is the information about people’s actual behavior rather than what they believe their behavior is. This opens up the opportunity for real, groundbreaking innovation. Applied in the right way, this can unlock the real human-centered problem.
For L.L. Bean, collecting information like how often a jacket is worn, washed, or the temperature of the climate is the little data breadcrumbs that we leave behind as we live our lives.
The company can then follow the breadcrumbs to understand more about our behaviors. This is more telling than what you fill out in a survey or post on social media. It’s beyond the “edited” response and rooted in real life activities.
But trying to innovate with big data is not just for big brands.
You might not have an army of customers wearing your brand’s sci-fi pants, sending data to a cloud, but there are ways you can collect vital information.
Even if you aren’t an engineer or well-versed in mining big data, you can still practice using big data with design thinking.
The most obvious place to start is using website data from Google Analytics to objectively show the most important behavior patterns of users on a website. Once you understand what people are doing, you can work out why, and use this to find innovative solutions.
If you don’t have your own website, don’t despair, Google has a demo google analytics account available to everyone.
And even though it’s a demo, the data comes from the real Google Merchandise Store, which sells Google-branded merch. It’s real numbers and real customer behaviors!
You can learn to apply your favorite algorithm, find valuable behavior insights, and all about the customer’s needs through big data.
Big data must be treated as the asset, not the byproduct. And anyone can find value in it if they learn how to look. When big data is paired with the human-centered design, that’s where we uncover real innovation.
If you have any thoughts or questions about big data or design thinking then just drop us a comment below.
Thank you for checking out Start Within. Each week, we release videos focusing on the newest technology and innovation companies are launching.
We then go into some of the mindsets, tips, and solutions these companies employ to enable you to go out and launch new things, right where you are.
Don’t forget to subscribe on YouTube, and thank you for your support!

In this powerful 2 hour workshop participants will take the time to ask the question “What are the things in my life that are really important to me right now and what things do I want to give more focus to in the future?” Many of us lead very busy lives juggling personal, work and family commitments and we rarely stop to evaluate whether we’re spending our time on activities that really reflect who we are and what’s important to us as individuals. Others feel stuck in familiar patterns of behaviour that really don’t inspire or fulfill us. If you feel you may be approaching a crossroads in your life, investing a couple of hours with a life coach to help you get clear on your personal priorities can have a profound effect on the rest of your life.
Image knowing exactly what your priorities are and being able to evaluate each new demand for your time or attention in the light of whether this supports what’s most important to you. As you move forward after this workshop and begin to make choices aligned to what’s most important to you, you will begin to feel a powerful sense of control, satisfaction and happiness in the new life you are creating for yourself.
Please complete the form below and I will follow up shortly.
Sign up for Sue's newsletter for information on upcoming events and a chance to win free coaching and other valuable prizes.
Request a FREE Living My Best Life consultation with Sue.
Send more info on the Personal & Professional Discovery Coaching Package.
Explore inviting Sue to speak at your organization, business or event.
Send me the video link to What You Need to Know About Moving to Victoria.
Send more info on the Personal Relocation Discovery Coaching Package.

SS. Peter and Paul Catholic School is committed to developing a strong foundation based upon academic excellence, Catholic faith ministry, moral development, and social and emotional growth. We endeavor to prepare responsible, life-long learners who will proclaim their Christian witness by contributing to the well-being of society. SSPP follows the Diocese of Rockford curriculum which exceeds both state and national standards. Students receive a quality education in the subject areas of Religion, Reading, Language Arts, Math, Science, Social Studies, Technology, STEM, Spanish, Music, PE, and Art. SSPP strives to achieve academic excellence through its robust curriculum which both imparts knowledge and provides productive learning experiences for all students. For students with special gifts and needs, a rigorous curriculum and support staff allows the teachers the ability to differentiate educational material to meet the learning needs of all students.
The foundation of an education at SS. Peter & Paul Catholic School is centered on Christian values. Our Catholic faith is integrated into everything we do. An environment of Christian caring and concern permeates each classroom. SSPP provides a faith-based environment that stresses service to others, spiritual growth and moral decision making.
At SS. Peter and Paul Catholic School, religious instruction is not merely another classroom subject, it's a way of life. Our students are instructed in the teachings, traditions, prayers, and values of the Catholic Church and participate in daily classroom prayer and weekly liturgy. Second grade students receive preparation for the Sacraments of First Communion and Reconciliation.
SS. Peter and Paul Catholic School prepares students to become responsible citizens through the Church's social teaching and by transforming them to see God in those they serve as well as in themselves. Students are encouraged throughout the school year to participate in service projects including Feeding God's Children, clothing and food drives, letters to the military, Operation Rice Bowl, St. Jude's Mathathon, and many more.
SS. Peter and Paul Catholic School recognizes the important role that technology plays in the lives of our students, and is committed to providing our students with essential 21st Century technology skills. The technology curriculum fosters the development of skills that encourage personal productivity, creativity, critical thinking, collaboration, and digital citizenship in the classroom and in daily life. Technology begins in PK and is readily available and accessible in each classroom for the learning task at hand. Multiple platforms and devices are utilized to ensure that our students become fluent in many of the devices and software they will encounter in high school and beyond.

With Valentine’s Day over I hope you all had a nice day with your loved ones. It’s hard to believe that the month of February is already coming to a close in a week. In my monthly market update I will be pulling numbers for the Menifee’s real estate market. As always my stats are based on single family, detaches residences, with 3+ bedrooms and 2+ baths.
Getting into the numbers for the month of February, I can see right away that we have gone down in the number of active listings. In January we had a total of 64 and now in February we are down to 48 a 25% decrease in inventory. The Price in which these homes are being listed has risen this month to $325,929 from January’s price of $295,498. With the supply of homes still so low it’s continuing to make it difficult for people to purchase a home in the Menifee area as well as other surrounding communities in the valley.
Now taking a look at what is selling in Menifee, we haven’t seen as many homes close escrow in January. We have dropped off 17 homes last month in comparison to December’s numbers. The average price in which they are actually selling for has remained within $1000. The amount of time they are remaining on the market is maintaining its average.
With the debt relief act continuing until December 31, 2013 many homeowners are taking advantage of the benefits by doing a short sale instead of going through the foreclosure process. I have a lot of experience working with these types of situations and I know they can be a long process but if this is something you or someone you know is considering please call and I will be happy to answer any questions and get the ball rolling. I know this can be a difficult situation, but I am here to help.

On 19th and 20th of September 2018, a mini-concert was scheduled to be held in front of the futsal field as part of the Autumn Club Festival. Unfortunately, it was raining cats and dogs over the two days, so the performances were canceled. The rain had been predicted several days before, but the Club Association of DKU did not prepare a contingency plan that would prevent its cancellation. The concert was merely delayed and eventually canceled due to incessant rain. This public performance takes a long time to prepare and is held only once a year. Everyone involved made an all-out effort for this mini-concert, but they did not expect a bad ending like this. The Autumn Club Festival is not the only event to have faced last minute challenges that potentially derail the best laid plans. We wanted to know more about these problems and how they were handled, so The Dankook Herald (DKH) conducted interviews with a few members from different campus clubs.
If you are a Dankookian (students of Dankook University), then you must know about the festival Danfesta, held every spring. During this period, there are often weather problems to overcome. Last year, with gloomy forecasts predicted, many Dankookians feared the festival would be canceled. While it wasn’t totally canceled, a lot of events were abandoned or altered for the safety of the students due to the inclement weather.
▲ Lightings and speakers were covered to prevent the rains from flowing in.
During the Autumn Club Festival, many clubs have their own booths to self-advertise. Some clubs even have performances prepared to promote themselves. However, this year, The Club Association had not prepared a backup plan in case of rain. So many clubs had to close their booths, missing a great opportunity to recruit new members and supporters. This was a problem because preventing the festival from closing in case of rain was one of the main promises made by The Club Association when they took over. In addition, in the Kakao-Talk chatroom with the club presidents, the subject of weather conditions came up many times, but nobody offered any specific solutions. They just said they would solve the problem if they had to. This lack of preparedness angered many students.
After the Autumn Club Festival ended, the DKH heard many comments from two club presidents in the Department of Performing Arts. They were disappointed they could not make their long-waited performances. Both clubs had been preparing for the Autumn Club Festival for more than 1 month. They saw it as a great opportunity to showcase the kind arts they do. However, they were disappointed when the events were canceled. The performers had to wait all day before they were given the final decision to cancel the event by the Club Association. President of club b pointed out that this was not the first time the association cancelled performances because of rain. Club members had to cancel their busking performances during the last school festival due to rain. With the cancellation of two performances in a row, understandably the morale of members rapidly declined and the overall mood of the club was depressed.
They said, of course, it would be best if the Club Association scheduled performances on a day when it is not raining, but since they cannot control the weather, they need to develop a plan B. President A said that the Association could rent other venues, like indoor theaters in the Humanities Hall or the student theater in Hyedang Hall. Regardless of how many people attend the event, President A thinks the Association has a responsibility to provide the opportunity they promised, as the students prepared for it for numerous days. President B knows that all promoters of school events work hard for a successful result, but much more needs to be done. Students who do not belong to the school club don’t even know when the festival is supposed to take place. B thinks more promotions are needed to improve attendance and also that they need people who are knowledgeable about electronic devices. A person who is in charge of using electrical devices is critical for the success of the performance, too.
The Dankook University Club Association was in charge of running the festival program. When the DKH asked whether they were aware of the forecast for the time of the outdoor performances they said, the plan was made and planned carefully a few weeks before the event. They realized that it could rain during the planning process and that the mid-term forecast at the time was not accurate for the event date, location, rental date, and promotional announcement date with various companies, so they went ahead with the plan.
▲ This is a picture of many people under umbrellas in the heavy rain at a festival.
When asked if there was a plan B, in case it rained, the association answered, they were thinking of the student theater as the next best thing. They remember it rained on the last day of the festival in 1st semester and the groups preparing for the performance changed the venue to the indoor student theater for safety reasons. But most club members complained about the static atmosphere and the absence of classmates due to the layout of the student theater. As a result, they decided to stick to the outdoor plan, unless it rained too much.
Lastly, when the DKH asked about what measures are taken to address prevailing weather conditions for upcoming events, the association said, when planning events, Dankookians can plan for weather conditions during the rainy season, but they also have many other things to consider. For the event, you need to prepare several contracts and begin planning a few months before and it is impossible to make double contracts to cover unexpected weather situations. So associations need to change the venue and choose a direction that works regardless of the conditions. Unfortunately, the gym and the student theater are places where it is harder to move around as compared to the outdoors, so changing places is not the best solution either. If you can be certain that it will rain, then you can start planning the event in that place from the ground up, but it is obviously unrealistic to know for certain what the weather will be that many months in advance.
▲ Singer PSY performing at DANFESTA 2018 and students wearing rain coats due to the rain.
Through the interview, we learned that the organizers faced a lot of troubles when they were planning the event, how they solved problems, how they dealt with the school and how they understand and sympathize with their members. However, we also learned from club members that they feel the organizers were irresponsible for not being prepared for the rainy weather that was predicted. It is surely the role of the association to strive for the satisfaction of students, despite their organizational difficulties. As we stressed earlier, this has happened before, therefore many people were disappointed and students lost faith in the association. In order to better prepare for future events, the association needs to implement a thorough plan b and strive to restore the trust of the student body. Every association can see this as a lesson and be more vigilant and more aggressive in their actions when planning their events.

Originally, from Chicago, now living in Hong Kong, Jeanne studied improvisation in Chicago. She holds a B.S. in Anthropology from Loyola University of Chicago and an M.S. in Historic Preservation from the School of the Art Institute.
She has performed, presented and conducted workshops in the US, Europe and Asia. Ms. Lambin’s workshops have been described as “amazing,” “powerful,” and “great fun.” Her work has been featured in the Hong Kong’s Top Notch Storytelling Festival, Liar’s League Hong Kong, Literary Death Match, the Art’s House World Voices Presents, the Moth Chicago, Story Lab and This Much is True. Ms. Lambin is a proud to be a founding member of Improv for Humanity and co-creator of The Quest: Improv for Transformation.

A new update of Microsoft Office 2016 (Build 7369.2017) for Slow ring Office Insiders on Windows has been released by Microsoft. The new September update with the version number of 16.0.7369.2017 or Version 1609 (Build 7369.2017) contains bug fixes and improvement as well as “Ink Replay” feature that allow Office user rewind and replay ink strokes on a PowerPoint slide and enhance PowerPoint recordings.
Microsoft Office 2016 September update was initially released for Office Insiders on 13th September 2016. According to Microsoft, the update has 34 security updates (1 bulletin) and 35 non-security updates in it including desktop operating systems, servers, browsers, Exchange server, Silverlight, SMBv1 and several others. In addition, it also rate 7 updates as critical and another 7 updates as important.
Update Office version 1609 (Build 7369.2017) brings better recordings in PowerPoint. Now Office user can add a Recording tab to the ribbon, create a presentation made up of recorded slides, screen recordings, and inserted video, and then share that recorded content to be viewed remotely on Docs.com. Besides that, user also can embed quizzes to assist with remote learning and make presentation more interactive, as well as change the ink color right from the palette in the recording pane.
For Outlook, Microsoft improved keyboard and assistive technology experiences for reading email, scheduling meetings, and adding a signature by build accessibility in Office 2016.
To get the update immediately, open any Office 2016 app and choose File > Account > Update Options > Update Now. For Office Insider Slow ring, you should be able to pull the update down now.

” It may seem surreal, but as work continues to decommission damaged reactors at the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant–a project that involves 7,000 or so workers–tours of the complex by outsiders are becoming increasingly popular.
By the end of last September, or four-and-a-half years since the nuclear accident triggered by the March 11, 2011, earthquake and tsunami disaster, some 16,000 people had visited.
Initially, visitors to the stricken facility were mainly politicians and specialists. But more recently, ordinary citizens are taking part as radiation levels have fallen at the plant site.
Nineteen university students took a tour last November. The bus they rode took them past large tanks holding contaminated water as well as a massive piece of equipment attached to a reactor building to extract nuclear fuel. Throughout the visit, workers wearing protective clothing and face masks could be seen.
The tour was organized by a group called AFW, which stands for Appreciate Fukushima Workers. Led by Akihiro Yoshikawa, 35, a former employee of Tokyo Electric Power Co., operator of the stricken plant, the group began escorting tours by residents living along the Pacific coast of Fukushima Prefecture from 2015. A major objective of the tours is to show residents what decommissioning involves.
“If ordinary citizens abandon interest, the plant site will be further shut off from the rest of the world,” Yoshikawa said.
He said that 140 or so people had participated in the seven tours organized to date.
Iwaki resident Kaori Suganami, 39, took part in a tour last June.
Because of the core meltdowns at the No. 1 to No. 3 reactors, high levels of radiation continue to be emitted. This makes it very difficult to approach those three reactors.
Elsewhere, though, rubble that was strewn throughout the plant grounds due to the tsunami generated by the magnitude-9.0 Great East Japan Earthquake has been removed, and radiation levels in many areas have dropped significantly. Ground surfaces have been paved and trees felled, which has also helped lower radiation levels.
According to TEPCO, about 900 people visited in the first year after the nuclear accident. Since then, the annual number of visitors has continued to increase. Local residents joining the tours also grew in number. About 3,700 people visited the plant in the first half of fiscal 2015. Of that number, about 250 were from Fukushima Prefecture.
Unlike workers at the plant site, visitors are not required to wear heavy protective gear. The basic getup is cotton gloves, disposable face masks and special footwear. Visitors are required to carry dosimeters. To reduce radiation exposure, visitors remain on the bus for large parts of the tour. Radiation exposure after an hour is in the range of 10 microsieverts, which is about 1 percent of the maximum additional radiation exposure of 1 millisievert established for the general population.
In April 2014, TEPCO established a visitation center at the Fukushima plant and two to three groups consisting of individuals 18 or older are allowed in daily. But not just anyone is allowed on the tours. “An overall assessment is made after considering such factors as the objective of the visit,” said a TEPCO official.
The decommissioning work is expected to take decades.
” FUKUSHIMA–Fukushima Prefecture’s population has declined by 5.7 percent since 2010, its largest recorded drop and the cause of a widening gender gap in some areas, according to national census figures announced on Dec. 25.
The population drop is mainly due to ongoing evacuations following the Fukushima nuclear disaster, according to the preliminary figures released by the prefectural government.
The prefecture lost 39,715 men and 75,743 women, a decrease of 4 percent and 7.3 percent from 2010, respectively. The difference is thought to have been caused partly by the majority male presence in reconstruction efforts.
The national census figures are the first released by the prefectural government since the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake and tsunami, which triggered the nuclear disaster at the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant.
Fukushima prefecture’s population as of Oct. 1 stood at 1,913,606, down 115,458, or 5.7 percent, from the last census in 2010.
Among the six towns and villages where the entire population has left under evacuation orders, four towns recorded zero inhabitants: Okuma and Futaba, which co-host the nuclear plant, and nearby Tomioka and Namie.
The village of Katsurao had 18 people who have returned to their homes after being evacuated. They are recorded as temporary residents, but the central government is working to make their resettlement permanent. Katsurao’s evacuation order is scheduled to be lifted next spring.
Naraha, where an evacuation order was lifted on Sept. 5, also experienced a massive decrease in its population, with 976 people living in the area, down 6,724 people, or 87.3 percent, from 2010. The figures illustrate the fact that few evacuees have opted to return home.
The town of Hirono, where a large portion of the population is involved in nuclear reactor decommissioning work, tallied a male population of 2,746, up 2.3 percent from 2010. The female population, on the other hand, was about half that figure at 1,577, down 42.3 percent.
The population figures are based on the number of people living in the prefecture as of Oct. 1, irrespective of whether they are registered as local citizens.
” Tokyo Electric Power Co., the utility that runs the destroyed Fukushima nuclear plant, has opened a rest area and canteen for cleanup workers, more than four years after the world’s worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.
Tokyo Electric has been widely criticized for its treatment of workers and handling of the cleanup, which is expected to take decades. A Reuters investigation in 2013 found widespread labor abuses, including workers who said their pay was skimmed and spoke of scant scrutiny of working conditions at the plant.
“We have taken various steps to cut accidents, including Tokyo Electric itself working more with contractors on the ground,” Akira Ono, Fukushima plant manager, told Reuters.

Poor girl mist be so confused , going into a new home then the puppies coming .
I hope she settles down and is able to relax .
Me too Missi...she has to be scared and has only been with Abby and Eric a few weeks...I feel so bad for her.
Poor girl. I hope that she calms down and is able to care for the pups and accept the help that she will need so much from her foster parents. Heck, I get testy after having just one baby! Can't imagine having 7 and nobody in the room that you really know & trust. I feel so sorry for her.
I swear I can't stand the cuteness!!!
Tee hee, Deb's getting a puppy and Joker is getting that brother he's been wanting.
I have no idea why you keep posting that...YOU DO NEED A PUPPY...Jaimie & Joker need a baby brudda!!!
See this is why you didn't adopt Smoke a while back .... Joker's twin was waiting to be made just for you!
Help me think of a really cool name, OK?

Everybody like to bowl right!!! See the attached flyer and come support our new projects in the Village of Lewiston and at The Arc Eric County Green Acres School were Mason and Matthew go to school.
For 200 for a team of 4 you get shoes, all you can eat and drink and three hours of bowling.
Cannot get a team, an we can pair you up with others. Cost 60 bucks. So get you team and the most creative team name wins a prize. Save money too with a team of 4.
Basket Raffle and Silent auction items as well.
Corporate lane sponsors available for $100.
March 9th from 3 to 6 pm at Brad Angelo Lanes on South Transit Road in Lockport. We are limited to 100 bowlers. Call us to reserve your spot!

It is possible to erase up to 4 HDD / SSD at the same time. IDE HDD connection is also possible with dedicated adapter.
HDD / SSD is exchanged from the order in which erasing is completed, and asynchronous erase function which can erase newly is installed.Five types of erase algorithms are installed. The erasing method can be selected according to the application.
HDD copy function installed. It is possible to copy one HDD data to up to three HDDs simultaneously.
Data delete contents can be printed with the attached dedicated printer . It is also possible to output text data of work log to USB memory.
Dedicated carrying case with waterproof / dustproof specification is included, which can contain the main body and all accessories.
This product is compatible with SATA 6 Gbps HDD / SSD, but the internal transfer speed is up to 130 MB / sec.
2.5 “HDD and 3.5” HDD can not be connected at the same time.

Surat Lamaran Kerja Bahasa Inggris Singkat is just about the image we ascertained on the internet from reliable imagination. We constitute one head to discourse this Surat Lamaran Kerja Bahasa Inggris Singkat picture on this webpage because predicated on conception coming from Google Image, Its one of the very best reted concerns keyword on Yahoo INTERNET SEARCH ENGINE. And that people also consider you arrived here were looking because of this information, are not You? From many options on the internet were sure this pictures is actually a good image for you, and we sincerely hopefully you are proud of with what we present.

Delicate & Whimsical Accessories with a Touch of the Sea's Beauty.
Strings of Pearlescent Pastels Paired with Silver, Gold or Sparkles.
Style: Elegant, Graceful & "Pearl Kissed"
Today you can find trendy jewelry to suit any style, bold, colorful, sparkly, even nerdy. But pieces that are beautifully understated in their elegance can be more of a challenge to come across. Perhaps because it's easy to overdo, but timelessness takes balance and the right materials like those favored by Ellen vanHully-Bronson of Pearl Kissed Jewelry. Most of Ellen's collections are centered around one of Mother Nature's most delicate and classic "gems" - the fresh water pearl. Her necklaces, bracelets and earrings are all handmade and one-of-a-kind, much like each naturally derived pearl. Her designs are meant to convey an air of elegance and romance, from her simpler strings of silver and the occasional pearl bead or crystal to the more intricate signature necklace with woven "branches" that sit gracefully along your neckline. Ellen's pieces make wonderful gifts for moms, daughters, sisters, wives and more. A Pearl Kissed necklace can enhance any outfit, from the more casual to an evening dress. They are that charming and versatile. While Ellen has a handful of self-designed collections, she is happy to discuss custom requests for a piece that's as special as its future wearer. That makes her work very well suited for bridal parties to match the romance you want on your special day! I love how creativity runs in Ellen's family, with this business originally started as a mother - daughter duo. Her daughter then continued to follow her passions to metalwork, but still offers input on design and marketing to help drive success. Ellen is a delight much like her jewelry, a pearl among artists!

How to reduce genres to only the 125 used by iTunes?
Subject: How to reduce genres to only the 125 used by iTunes?
I read in another post that iTunes uses a standard list of 125 genres.
Is it possible to somehow limit the genres Jaikoz assigns to this list of 125 despite what MB or Discogs genres are?
It would be nice to have a checkbox that says "Limit to iTunes genres".
I've just discovered the "Filter/Non-standard-Genres/Non-standard Filters" option so I guess I could use that to show me which ones are non standard then update them manually however it would be great to have a fuzzy matching option that matches non standard to iTunes standard genres.
Subject: Re:How to reduce genres to only the 125 used by iTunes?
Your best bet it to use the filter non-iTunes filters, non-standardFIlters limits to 255 genres but only half of these are in the predefined list provided by iTunes.
However these options may be misleading you, although iTunes only recognises 125 genres by number you can still use any value to store a genre, it is just stored as text.
The Musicbrainz list is not limited in any sense so it would be rather difficult to map an arbitary Musicbrainz genre to an iTunes one.
Is there anywhere in Jaikoz I can find the list of 255 genres that Jaikoz is using in this filter AND/OR the 125 iTunes genres so I can make sure that my collection only uses these "standard" ones?
Would be good to have a cross matching facility, for example several of my songs have a genre "Rock/Pop" (a single genre) these could be matched to two seperate genres ie "Rock" and "Pop" then for anything not found in Jaikoz's cross matching genre database the User could enter a nominated genre ie "Unknown" so then you have a subset of your music (genre = "Unknown") you know needs to be listened to and a genre manually assigned.
So the the 125 genres listed are the one iTunes understands by genre number.
Paul how about this ...if we got 50 people to each donate $10 OR reach $500 of donations (whichever comes first) would you add a genre cross matching function (as explained above) to Jaikoz? We could keep track by each person posting how much they have donated in this thread.
I would rather see something like what mediamonkey has in some of their plugins. The ability to do white lists, black lists, and grey lists.
That way one would have far more control. For your example, you could use the white list and put in the allowed genres you have listed below. Or one could do a blacklist, which allows everything except for certain tags. This is useful for when you tag from other sources and don't want particular tags to show up. Say I tag from last.fm and don't want the tag "seen live" to be used. Lastly, the grey list would allow for tag replacement. So I could say anytime you run across the tag "rock n roll" replace it with "rock and roll" or "rnb" to "r&b", etc.
2:The limited set of genres is incomplete and doesnt include newer genres , I dont see that this list should be seen as the definitive list.
In September I went to the yearly Musicbrainz Summit and genres were discussed there, see page 12 of https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ihe2nAatrLHfgPOvXWn_VJQVUVQ36iFy5MY03lTBhMM/edit?pli=1, hopefully a solution will emerge if you are interested in this it would be worth your while posting on the musicbrainz mailing list.
Jaikoz does already have a blacklist Preferences:Remote Correct:Correct Genres that supports wildcards, but not a whitelist or greylist, I can see these being useful additions.
Yes was already aware of this and although very helpful in stopping unwanted genres is not useful in correcting anything not on this list.
I see limiting the list to the iTunes this to be a major advantage not a disadvantage even if its not a definitive list. Reason being is that people will always disagree on the exact genre of a song so its better to at least have a standard (the 125 iTunes genres) that people must stay within that way genres become a usable way (currently they are not due to so many genres) to sort, listen and create playlists since you know that when you select "Rock & Roll" genre you're getting all your Rock & Roll songs and don't also have to also look under "Rock n Roll", "Rock and Roll", "Rock/Roll" etc.
As its stands there are currently so many permutations of genres it makes them unusable so it would be good to have an option in Jaikoz to "force" the use of only "standard" genres regardless of what MB or Discogs has assigned to them. Of course this wouldn't prevent people NOT enabling this option and still going with MB, Discogs or their own preferred genres.
I think greengeek's idea of a white lists is a good way of implementing this ie the white list would be initially populated with only the 125 iTunes genres (however Users could edit this list).
In preferences you could "enable" the whitelist which tells Jaikoz to enforce the use of these genres only. You would nominate a genre (eg "Unknown") that Jaikoz would assign to any songs for genres not found on this whitelist.
Again greengeek's idea of a grey list is a good way of enabling Jaikoz to use this list to fuzzy match non standard genres to the iTunes standard genres (or whatever the User decides they want to cross match to) eg "Rock n Roll", "Rock and Roll", "Rock/Roll" would all be in the grey list and be assigned to the iTunes standard "Rock & Roll" OR a genre of the User's choice if they don't want to use iTunes standard ones.
Yes I like this idea of a grey list, although there is a complication. If the user decides to use both Discogs genres and styles, do we need multiple greylists ?
I can't think of a scenario where you'd need two greylists as this list is really what the User wants Jaikoz to use to cross match to their "standard" genres regardless of where the currently assigned genre came from ie was already assigned to song or came from MB or Discogs lookup.
As previously mentioned, by having a checkbox for "Replace unmatched genres with:" [User entered genre ie "Unknown"] the User would also have an option of either leaving unmatched genres as is OR replacing them with their chosen genre which enables them to seperate out these songs for manual review at a latter date.

Purchase these supplements for the growth and development of healthy bones from this website for a reduced price.
Shop a wide range of conditioners, eye drops and more from this online merchant for less.
Get instant relief from stress, aches and pains with these oils. Order now for a fabulous discounted price.
Keep your skin healthy and soft, joints well lubricated with these fish oils. Order now for a reduced price from this website.
Purchase sun creams to protect your skin against UV rays from this online merchant for a greatly reduced price.
Register your email address to receive regular updates, exclusive deals and more from this website.
Express Chemist is a UK registered pharmacy selling to the international market through the website. They do not only supply customers with medicine but also medical related equipment such us blood pressure machines, mobility and disability aids, medical supplies, day to day toiletries plus much more. Product range and affordable prices are the goals of Express Chemist.

In the past five years the percentage of weekly mobile banking users has more than tripled — from 9% in 2010 to 30% in 2015 — while weekly branch visitors fell from 40% to 24% in the same time frame. 2015 marked the first time that weekly mobile bankers (30%) exceeded branch bankers (24%) in Javelin’s survey. “What is driving this incredible growth? Smartphones and tablets are gaining rapidly in consumer adoption but it’s also a function of the fact that mobile banking services have not only proliferated but increased in the quality and features they offer consumers,” said Javelin analyst Daniel Van Dyke during a January 27 webinar reviewing the firm’s Mobile Banking, Smartphone and Tablet Forecast.
Javelin’s recent report Digital Account Opening Reaches The Tipping Point also found that more Americans are applying for credit cards, loans and investment products through digital channels than physical ones. Javelin has argued that “FIs that fail to divert resources from branch to digital suffer a large opportunity cost, missing out in lowered servicing costs for basic transactions and in sales of new products.” The service costs argument rings particularly true for mobile deposit, with Chase citing a cost of 65 cents for each teller deposit vs only 3 cents using mobile. While 38 percent of big bank customers utilize mobile deposit, only 18 percent of community bank and 16 percent of credit union customers do, placing these institutions at a significant disadvantage in terms of service costs.
The branch network, which peaked at 99,550 U.S. locations in 2009, has dropped each year since. The latest FDIC figure of 93,283 represents a 6.3 percent decline in the last six years, although Bryan Yurcan of American Banker was quick to point out that "most of that reduction has come with the nation's largest banks shedding inventory ... many smaller banks have held steady, and even increased, branch numbers."
Predicting that account maintenance will increasingly be performed on mobile devices but there will be times that customers seek face-to-face advice, Schwanhausser said FIs need to "get into the business where they're influencing the behavior of their customers, guiding them to a smarter way to manage their finances. Those are very personal kinds of conversations. It's not about eliminating (the branch) but how do we put the pieces together in a more coherent way?"
While early adopters of smartwatches tend to be affluent or part of Gen Y2 (ages 25-34), mobile bankers no longer carry such unique characteristics. As Van Dyke put it, "The mobile banker of today is the banking customer of today. They're becoming indistinguishable." Mobile banking has become so commonplace that Javelin projects 80 percent of consumers will be engaging in it — on a 90 day basis — by 2020.
In 2015 74 percent of mobile banking users employed an app and 69 percent utilized a mobile browser, dwarfing the 31 percent using SMS text messaging. Schwanhausser said FIs will continue to wrestle with the question of what to make available in the app: "Do you make it fine tuned and focused and streamlined or replicate what can be viewed in online banking?" Van Dyke predicts that banks will continue to take advantage of device-specific capabilities, whether using the camera for mobile deposit or geolocation to identify nearby ATMs. "Things like that will underscore the need to offer superior experiences on the app," said Van Dyke.
2015 marked a continuation of Android's dominance, as the operating system grew its share of the U.S. tablet market from 45 to 48 percent and its share of the U.S. smartphone market from 47 to 49 percent. Apple's tablet share fell from 46 to 43 percent, with its smartphone share dropping from 46 to 45 percent. While Apple's numbers have been moving in the wrong direction Van Dyke reiterated that iOS users are the most valuable that an FI can serve. "iPhone users show extremely unique characteristics. They bank more often, they make payments more often," said Van Dyke. "When it comes to banks and payment providers iPhone owners are the gold standard." In addition to serving Android users, Javelin recommended that FIs prioritize an app on Amazon — but only after all iOS and Android device types have been addressed. Javelin suggested that there was no value in supporting Windows or Blackberry users, who only represent 4 and 2 percent of the smartphone market respectively.

here are some very nice perks to the holiday season that don’t have anything to do with gifts or shaving your legs less. One of them is the opportunity to get bold with your makeup. Really bold. After all, summertime is when you want to look dewy, fresh, and minimal….with the searing heat, you don’t want piles of carefully applied makeup on your face. Winter, however, is a time to experiment and go as big and brash as you want. The holidays by nature call for a little more glitter, glam, and shine. You want to look your best under the mistletoe!
This eye color look is pure decadence and drama, and calls for little more than a steady hand and a great eye shadow palette. (Oh, and loads of mascara or some lush falsies.) Try this look with a flirty holiday dress and you’ll look as fashionable on the outside as you feel on the inside.
I like the POP Beauty Pretty Punk Eyeshadow Palette ($10)…all the pretty colors in one place.
Begin by prepping the entire lid with a light Highlighter shade. I like to use a pale cream or muted white color with a little sparkle.
Move towards the brow bone with a darker plum shade, blending in well with the purple and black as you go. Top the plum shadow with a lighter magenta shade, but without going over the brow bone. Only highlighter should be on the brow bone.
Blend all the colors lightly and seamlessly so they appear to flow into one another, but you should still be able to see each color. Add a rim of teal eyeliner or shadow to the inner corner/rim of the eye, as well as the bottom lash line.
Top it all off with several heavy sweeps of mascara or false lashes.

A full time vegan, poet, artist and woman.
Frontal and thorough when inspired.
Our memories: childhood memories, the language we dearly speak and nature's colorful and tasteful palette are a constant and renewable source of wonder and inspiration.
I am just getting through finishing two special orders of my Xocolate Bears new edition, which are going to Costa Rica. Both orders are reconnecting me with childhood friends and grade school teachers.
I sell my projects on Etsy. In local shops and in our hometown San Jose, Costa Rica in La Tienda Eñé a shop supporting local indie and urban designers, artisans and artists.
Handmade over mass production, and over all those other products largely available. Handmade by choice to keep our creative and critical side active, to balance and renovate while innovating ourselves every day. Handmade is more a legacy and tradition worth the while to take back and pass down, its techniques connected to our earlier days and years. The things we made, the stuff we broke. Handmade is the milestones we will all like to share. Going back and supporting handmade will keep creativity at edge and sharp.